'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -CoPy_file' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -CoPy_file" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -CoPy_file \- copy a file into a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file
[
.IR option ...
]
.IR filename ...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -CoPy_file
command is used to
copy a file into a change.
.so z_intuit.so
.PP
The named files will be copied from the baseline into
the development directory,
and added to the list of files in the change.
.PP
You may also name directories.
All of the source files in the directories named,
and all directories below them,
will be copied from the baseline into the development directory,
and added to the list of files in the change.
.PP
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because adding another file logically invalidates them.
If the
.I config
file was added,
any diff registration will also be cancelled.
.PP
This command may be used to copy tests into a change,
not just source files.
Tests are treated just like any other source file,
and are subject to the same process.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.TP 8n
\fB-DELta\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular
delta in the project's history to copy the file from,
rather than the most current version.
If the delta has been given a name
(see
.IR aedn (1)
for how)
you may use a delta name instead of a delta number.
It is an error if the delta specified does not exist.
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.TP 8n
\fB-Output\fP \fIfilename\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify an output file
of a file being copied from the baseline.
Only one baseline file may be named when this option is used.
The file name "-" is understood to mean the standard output.
.so o_overw.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aecp '\*(n) -cp \e!* -v'
sh$	aecp(){\*(n) -cp $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is already in the change and the
.B -OverWrite
option is not specified.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecpu (1)
reverse action of aecp
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedn (1)
assign a name to a delta
.TP 8n
.IR aemv (1)
rename a file as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add a new file to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (1)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
