'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -CoPy_file_Undo' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -CoPy_file_Undo" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -CoPy_file_Undo \- reverse action of aecp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
[
.IR option ...
]
.IR filename ...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -CoPy_file_Undo
command is used to
remove a file previously copied into a change.
.so z_intuit.so
.PP
The named files will be removed from the list of files in the change.
The file is deleted from the development directory
unless the
.B -Keep 
option is specified.
The 
.B -Keep
option should be used with great care,
as you can confuse tools such as
.IR make (1)
by leaving these files in place.
.PP
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
If the
.I config
file was deleted,
any diff registration will also be cancelled.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.TP 8n
.B -UNChanged
.br
Examine the named files to see if they are unchanged.
Only removed the unchanged files form the change,
and leave the files which have changed.
If no files are named on the command line
all change files are checked.
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aecpu '\*(n) -cpu \e!* -v'
sh$	aecpu(){\*(n) -cpu $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
