'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -DIFFerence' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -DIFFerence" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -DIFFerence \- find differences between development directory and baseline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -DIFFerence
[
.IR filename ...
]
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -DIFFerence
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -DIFFerence
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -DIFFerence
command is used to
find differences between the development directory and the baseline.
The differences will be in files with a "\f(CW,D\fP" suffix.
The command used to perform the differences is in the
project
.I config
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information).
.PP
If no files are named on the command line,
all files in the change will be differenced.
.so z_intuit.so
.SH CONFLICT RESOLUTION
If the version of a file in the change is not the same
as the verion of the file in the baseline,
it is out-of-date;
some other change has altered the file while this change was being developed.
.PP
When a difference is requested for an out-of-date file,
a merge is performed
between the common ancestor,
the verion in the baseline,
and the version in the development directory.
The command used to perform the merge is in the
project
.I config
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information).
.PP
After the merge is performed
the version of the file will be changed to be the current version,
and a new build will be required.
.PP
The difference output in the \fI,D\fP files
contains the result of the merge.
You should edit them,
to make sure the automatic merge has produced sensible results,
and then rename them to be the corresponding source file.
.PP
This merge process works most of the time.
Usually two changes to two logically separate areas of functionality
will alter two logically separate parts of any files they may
have in common.
There are pathological cases where this merge process is spectacularly useless,
but these are surprizingly rare in practice.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_anticip.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aed '\*(n) -diff \e!* -v'
sh$	aed(){\*(n) -diff $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "'being developed'"
state.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
