'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -Develop_Begin' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Develop_Begin" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Develop_Begin \- begin development of a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_Begin
.I change-number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_Begin
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_Begin
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Develop_Begin
command is used to
commence development of a change.
.PP
The development directory for the change will be created automatically;
below the directory specified in the default_\%development_\%directory field of
.IR aeuconf (5),
or if not set
below the directory specified in the default_\%development_\%directory field of
.IR aepattr (5),
or if not set
below the current user's home directory.
It is rare to need to know the exact pathname of the development directory,
as the
.IR aecd (1)
command can take you there at any time.
.PP
Successful execution of this command will move the
specified change from the
.I "awaiting development"
state to the
.I "being developed"
state.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_dir.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aedb '\*(n) -db \e!* -v'
sh$	aedb(){\*(n) -db $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change does not exist.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting development"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not a developer of the specified project.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
