'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -Develop_End_Undo' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Develop_End_Undo" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Develop_End_Undo \- recall a change for further development
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.I change-number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Develop_End_Undo
command is used to
recall a change for further development.
.PP
Successful execution of this command returns the change
to the
.I "being developed"
state.
.PP
The files are changed back to being owned by the current user,
and cease to be read-only.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aedeu '\*(n) -deu \e!* -v'
sh$	aedeu(){\*(n) -deu $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in one of
the
.I "being reviewed"
or
.I "awaiting integration"
states.
.br
It is an error if
the change was not developed by the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aede 1
complete development of a change
.TP
.IR aerp 1
pass review of a change
.TP
.IR aerf 1
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
