'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -Integrate_Begin' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Integrate_Begin" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Integrate_Begin \- begin integrating a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Begin
.I change-number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Begin
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Begin
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Integrate_Begin
command is used to
begin the integration of a change into the baseline of a project.
.PP
The change will advance
from the
.I "awaiting integration"
state to the
.I "being integrated"
state.
.PP
A copy of the baseline is created in an
.IR "integration directory" 
and the the files of the change are added to the integration directory;
time stamps on the files are preserved.
The 
.I "'\*(n) -Change_Directory'"
command may be used to locate this directory.
The change will be assigned to the current user.
.PP
The change will be assigned a delta number.
Delta numbers are incremented once for each
.I "\*(n) -Integrate_Begin"
command for the project.
If an integration is subsequently aborted with either the
.I "\*(n) -Integrate_Begin_Undo"
or
.I "\*(n) -Integrate_FAIL"
command,
the delta number will not be re-used.
.PP
It is not possible to choose the integration directory,
as there are many constraints upon it,
including the fact that it must be
on the same device as the baseline directory,
and that many UNIX implementations don't allow renaming
directories up and down the trees.
The integration directory will be in the project directory,
and named for the delta number.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_min.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aeib '\*(n) -ib \e!* -v'
sh$	aeib(){\*(n) -ib $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting integration"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not an integrator of the project.
.br
It is an error if
there is an integration in progress for the project.
.br
It is an error if
the current user developed the change and the project is configured to
disallow developers to integrate their own changes (default).
.br
It is an error if
the current user reviewed the change and the project is configured to
disallow reviewers to integrate their such changes (default).
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build a change
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aeibu (1)
reverse the aeib command
.TP 8n
.IR aeif (1)
fail integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeip (1)
pass integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeni (1)
add new integrators to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerp (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aet (1)
run tests
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
