'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -Integrate_Fail' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Integrate_Fail" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Integrate_Fail \- fail a change integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Fail
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Fail
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Integrate_Fail
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Integrate_Fail
command is used to
inform \*(n) that a change has failed integration.
.PP
The change will be returned
from the 'being_integrated' state
to the 'being_developed' state.
The change will cease to be assigned to the current user,
and will be reassigned to the originating developer.
The integration directory will be deleted.
.PP
The reviewer and the developer will be notified by mail.
See the integrate_fail_notify_command in 
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aeifail '\*(n) -ifail \e!* -v'
sh$	aeifail(){\*(n) -ifail $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the 'being_integrated' state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
