'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -MoVe_file' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -MoVe_file" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -MoVe_file \- rename a file as part of a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
[
.IR option ...
]
.I old-name
.I new-name
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -MoVe_file
command is used to
copy a file into a change,
while changing its name at the same time.
.so z_intuit.so
.PP
The named files will be copied from the baseline (\fIold-file\fP) into
the development directory (\fInew-file\fP),
and added to the list of files in the change.
.PP
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because adding another file logically invalidates them.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aemv '\*(n) -mv \e!* -v'
sh$	aemv(){\*(n) -mv $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
either file is already in the change.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenfu (1)
remove files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aermu (1)
remove files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
