'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -New_Change' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_Change" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_Change \- add a new change to a project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Change
.I attr-file
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Change
.B -Edit
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Change
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Change
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_Change
command is used to
add a new change to a project.
See
.IR aecattr (5)
for information on the format of the
.IR attr-file .
.PP
The change is created in the
.I "awaiting development"
state.
The change is not assigned to any user.
The change has no development directory.
.PP
It is not possible to choose your own change number.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_edit.so
.so o_file.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aenc '\*(n) -nc \e!* -v'
sh$	aenc(){\*(n) -nc $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the current user is not an administrator of the project.
(In some cases it is possible for developers of a project to create
changes,
see 
.IR aepattr (5)
for more information.)
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeca (1)
modify the attributes of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aena (1)
add a new administrator to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aencu (1)
remove a new change from a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenpr (1)
create a new project
.TP 8n
.IR aepa (1)
modify the attributes of a project
.TP 8n
.IR aecattr (5)
change attributes file format
.TP 8n
.IR aepattr (5)
project attributes file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
