'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -New_Fule_Undo' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_File_Undo" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_File_Undo \- remove new files form a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_File_Undo
command is used to
remove new files from a change
(reverse the actions of the '\*(n) -New_File' command).
.so z_intuit.so
.PP
The file is removed from the list of files in the change.
The file is deleted from the development directory,
unless the
.B -Keep
option is used.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aenfu '\*(n) -nfu \e!$ -v'
sh$	aenfu(){\*(n) -nfu $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the 'being_developed' state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not in the change.
.br
It is an error if
the file was not added to the change with the '\*(n) -New_File' command.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
