'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -New_PRoject' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_PRoject" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_PRoject \- create a new project
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_PRoject
.I project-name
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_PRoject
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_PRoject
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_PRoject
command is used to
create a new project.
.PP
The project directory,
under which the project baseline and history and
state and change data are kept,
will be created at this time.
If the 
.B -DIRectory 
option is not given,
the project directory will be created in the
directory specified by the default_\%project_\%directory field of
.IR aeuconf (5),
or if not set
in current user's home directory;
in either case with the same name as the project.
.PP
The project is created with the current user
and group as the owning user and group.
The current user is an administrator for the project.
The project has no developers, reviewers, integrators or
other administrators.
The project's umask is derived from the current user's umask,
but guaranteeing that group members will have access
and that only the project owner will have write access.
.PP
The project pointer will be added to the first element of
the search path,
or
.I /usr/local/lib/aegis
if no path is set.
If this is inappropriate, use the
.B -LIBrary
option to explicitly set the desired location.
See the
.B -LIBrary
option for more information.
.PP
The project major version defaults to 1,
and the minor version defaults to 0,
unless modified by the version options,
below.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_dir.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_lib.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_major.so
.so o_minor.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aenpr '\*(n) -npr \e!* -v'
sh$	aenpr(){\*(n) -npr $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the project name already exists.
.br
It is an error if
the project directory already exists.
.br
It is an error if
the current user does not have sufficient permissions to create
the directory specified with the
.B -DIRectory
option.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aena (1)
add a new administrator to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
add a new change to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aend (1)
add a new developer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenrls (1)
create a new project from an existing project
.TP 8n
.IR aenrv (1)
add a new reviewer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aermpr (1)
remove project
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
