'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -New_Test_Undo' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_Test_Undo" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_Test_Undo \- remove new tests from a change
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_Test_Undo
command is used to
remove new tests from a change
(reverse the actions of the '\*(n) -New_Test' command).
The file is deleted from the development directory.
The file names may be relative to the current directory,
and \*(n) will attemp to intuit the names relative to the
development directory or the baseline directory.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aentu '\*(n) -ntu \e!$ -v'
sh$	aentu(){\*(n) -ntu $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the 'being_developed' state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not in the change.
.br
It is an error if
the file was not added to the change with the '\*(n) -New_Test' command.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
