'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1994 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual page describing the aer command.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -RePorT" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -RePorT \- report generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -RePorT
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR report-name
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -RePorT
[
.IR option \&...
]
.B -File
.IR filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -RePorT
.B -List
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -RePorT
command is used to
generate reports from \*(n)' database.
Reports are specified in a C-like language
described in the
.IR aer (5)
manual entry.
.PP
For a list of the reports available on your system,
use the '\fIaer -list\fP' command.
These reports live in the
.I /usr/local/lib/aegis/report
directory,
and it initially contains the reports distributed with \*(n),
however sites are free to add their own here.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.TP 8n
\fB-Output\fP \fIfilename\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify an output file
for the report.
The default is to use the standard output.
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aer '\*(n) -rpt \e!* -v'
sh$     aer(){\*(n) -rpt $* -v}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR ael (1)
list (possibly) interesting things
.TP 8n
.IR aer (5)
report script language definition
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
