'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for the 'aegis -Test' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Test" 1 \*(N)
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Test \- run tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Test
[
.IR file-name ...
][
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Test
.B -INDependent
[
.IR file-name ...
][
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Test
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Test
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Test
command is used to
run tests.
If no files are named, all relevant tests are run.
By default both automatic and manual tests are run.
.so z_intuit.so
.PP
The command used to execute tests is defined by the
.I test_command
field in the project
.I config
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information),
this defaults to using the Bourne shell if not set.
The current directory will be the top of the appropriate directory tree.
If tests require temporary files, they should create them in
.IR /tmp ,
as a test cannot expect to have write permission
in the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_auto.so
.so o_baselin.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_devdir.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_indep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_manual.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_regress.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aet '\*(n) -t \e!* -v'
sh$	aet(){\*(n) -t $* -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in one of the
.I "being developed"
or
.I "being integrated"
states.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeca (1)
modify the attributes of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aent (1)
add a new test to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy an existing test into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
