'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: description of aegis user config file format
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aeuconf 5 \*(n)
.SH NAME
aeuconf - user configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI$HOME\f(CW/.\*(n)rc\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user configuration file
is used to hold user defaults.
This file is created and edited by the user.
This file is only ever read by \*(n).
.SH CONTENTS
The file contains the following fields:
.TP 8n
default_development_directory = string;
.br
The pathname of where to place new development directories.
The pathname may be relative,
in which case it is relative to \fI$HOME\fP.
The default is the field of the same name in the project attributes,
or \fI$HOME\fP neither is set.
.TP 8n
default_project_directory = string;
.br
The pathname of where to place new project directories.
The pathname may be relative.
If this path is relative,
it is relative to \fI$HOME\fP.
The default is \fI$HOME\fP.
.TP 8n
delete_file_preference = (no_keep, interactive, keep);
.br
All of the commands which delete files will
consult this field to determine if the file should be deleted.
Defaults to
.I no_keep
if not set.
.TP 8n
default_project_name = string;
.br
The name of a project.
.TP 8n
default_change_number = integer;
.br
The number of a change.
.PP
Please note that the
.I default_project_name
field and the
.I default_change_number
field
are unrelated.
Specifying both does not mean that single change within that single project,
they have nothing to do with each other.
.TP 8n
diff_preference = (automatic_merge, no_merge, only_merge);
.RS
The
.IR aed(1)
command will consult this field to determine what to do:
.TP 8n
.B no_merge
means only diff the files,
even if some have out of date versions.
.TP 8n
.B only_merge
means merge those files with out of date versions,
and do not do anything else,
even if they need to be diffed.
.TP 8n
.B autmoatic_merge
means to do
.I only_merge
if any source files require merging,
otherwise do
.IR no_merge .
It never combines merges and differences in the same pass.
.PP
The corresponding command line options to the
.IR aed (1)
command take precedence,
this field is only consulted if you do not give
a corresponding command line argument.
Defaults to
.I automatic_merge
if not set.
 */
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.TP 8n
.IR aed (1)
difference and merge files
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
