'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993  Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: description of aegis user state file format
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aeustate 5 \*(N)
.SH NAME
aeustate - user state file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f(CW/usr/local/lib/\*(n)/user/\fP\fIuser-name\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user state file
is used to store information about a user.
These file are created and maintained by \*(n).
These file should not be edited by humans.
.SH CONTENTS
.TP 8n
own = [{ ... }];
This field is a list of change the user is currently working on,
within project.
The changes are in either the
.I being_developed
or
.I being_integrated
state.
The structure of this field is as follows:
.RS
.TP 8n
project = string;
The name of a project.
.TP 8n
change = [integer];
The changes this user is working on in the project.
.RE
.so z_cr.so
