'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: source for ALPHA file
.\"
.TH alpha aegis
.if n .hy 0
.if n .ad l
.if n .nr IN 8n
.SH NAME
aegis \- project change supervisor
.br
.if t .ds C) \(co
.if n .ds C) (C)
Copyright \*(C) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.br
All rights reserved.
.PP
The
.I aegis
program is distributed under the terms of the
GNU General Public License.
See the LICENSE section, below, for more details.
.PP
.B aegis
(ee.j.iz)
.I n.,
a protection,
a defence.
.SH ALPHA SOFTWARE
This is an alpha version of the
.I aegis
program.
This means that it is not the final product,
or even a Beta version.
It probably has bugs,
and it has known limitations.
This version is intended for testing only,
and should be used with caution in a "live" environment.
That said,
the harder you use it,
the more useful the testing.
If you are still interested,
the author would like to know the following:
.TP
1. The type of UNIX
.br
The author will need to know the type of UNIX you are using,
and sometimes what version,
or if it is not UNIX but something else.
The output of "uname -rs" is usually sufficent (but not all systems have it).
.TP
2. The Version Number
.br
In any information you send,
please include the version number
reported in the
.I common/patchlevel.h
file,
or \f(CW`aegis -vers`\fP if you can get it to compile.
.TP
3. The Archive Site
.br
When and where you obtained this version of
.IR aegis .
If you tell me nothing else,
tell me this (and, hopefully, why you did nothing else).
.TP
4. Unpacking
.br
Did you have problems unpacking
.IR aegis ?
This probably isn't a problem with the .tar.Z distribution,
but you could have obtained a shar format copy.
.TP
5. Building
.br
Did you have problems building
.IR aegis ?
This could have been the instructions included,
it could have been the Makefile,
it could have been problems configuring it,
or anything else.
.TP
6. Testing, Non-Set-Uid
.br
Did you have problems with the tests?
Yes, the
.I aegis
program comes with tests!
You could have had problems running them,
or some of them could have failed.
If some tests fail but not others,
please let me know
.I which
ones failed.
.TP
7. Testing, Set-Uid-Root
.br
Did you have problems with the tests when
.I aegis
was set-uid-root?
You could have had problems running them,
or some of them could have failed.
If some tests fail but not others,
please let me know
.I which
ones failed,
and include the fact that
.I aegis
was set-uid-root at the time.
.TP
8. Installation
.br
Did you have problems installing
.IR aegis ?
This could have been the instructions,
or anything else.
.PP
At this point it would probably be a very good idea to print out the
manual entries and read them carefully.
You will also want to print a copy of the User Guide;
if you don't gave groff,
there should be a PostScript copy at the archive site.
It is a known flaw that the User Guide is incomplete,
it is something the author is working on "at this moment".
(See the
.I "PRINTED MANUALS"
section of the
.I BUILDING
file for more details.)
.TP
9. The Example Project
.br
After reading the User Guide,
it is often useful to manually run through the example in chapter 3.
You will need to do more than one change, hopefully several;
the first change is not representative of the system.
Did you manually do the example?
Did you find flaws in the User Guide or manual entries?
.TP
10. Using Aegis
.br
Did you have problems using
.IR aegis ?
This is a whole can of worms.
If possible,
include a shell script similar to the tests which accompany
.IR aegis ,
which reproduces the bug.
Exit code 1 on failure (bug),
exit code 0 on success (for when bug is fixed).
.TP
11. The Source Code
.br
Did you read the code?
Did you write some code?
If you read the code and found problems,
fixed them,
or extended
.IR aegis ,
these contributions are most welcome.
I reserve the right to modify or reject such contributions.
.PP
The above list is inclusive,
not exclusive.
Any and all feedback is greatly appreciated,
as is the effort and interest required to produce it.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SOME HISTORY
The idea for
.I aegis
did not come full-blown into my head in the shower,
as some of my programs do,
but rather from working for a software shop
which used a simplistic form of something similar.
That system was held together by chewing-gum and string,
it was written in a disgusting variant of Basic,
and by golly the damn thing worked (mostly).
The
.I aegis
program is nothing like it,
owes none of its code to that system,
and is far more versatile.
.PP
Since that company decided to close down our section,
we all moved on simultaneously (all 60 of us),
sometimes working together,
and sometimes not,
but always keeping in touch.
With suggestions and conversations with
some of them early in 1990,
the manual entries for
.I aegis
took shape,
and formed most of the design document for
.IR aegis .
The rest of the design document will eventually appear
in the "model" section of the user manual.
.PP
Since getting the first glimmerings of a functional
.I aegis
late in 1990 it
is increasingly obvious that I never want to be without it ever again.
All of my sources that I modify are instantly placed under
.IR aegis ,
as is anything I distribute.
All code I write for myself,
and all new code I write for my employer,
goes under
.IR aegis .
Why?
Because it has fewer bugs!
.PP
Example: one of the sources I carry with me from job to job is "cook",
my dependency maintenance tool.
Cook had existed for 3 years before
.I aegis
appeared on the scene,
and I used it daily.
When I placed cook under
.IR aegis ,
I found 6 bugs!
Since then I have found even more.
Not only are there now fewer bugs,
but they never come back,
because the regession test suite always grows.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH LICENSE
The
.I aegis
program is free software;
you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation;
either version 2 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.
.PP
The
.I aegis
program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.PP
It should be in the
.I LICENSE
file included in this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l l l.
Peter Miller;UUCP;uunet!munnari!bmr.gov.au!pmiller
\f(CW/\e/\e*\fR;Internet;pmiller@bmr.gov.au
.TE
