'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1993 Peter Miller.
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: source of the BUILDpyr file
.\"
.TH build-pyramid aegis
.if n .hy 0
.if n .ad l
.if n .nr IN 8n
.SH NAME
aegis \- project change supervisor
.br
.if t .ds C) \(co
.if n .ds C) (C)
Copyright \*(C) 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 Peter Miller.
.br
All rights reserved.
.PP
The aegis program is distributed under the terms of the
GNU General Public License.
See the LICENSE section, below, for more details.
.PP
.B aegis
(ee.j.iz)
.I n.,
a protection,
a defence.
.SH PYRAMID
This file describes how to configure aegis to be compiled on the
Pyramid SMP DC/OSx 1.0-92b023 operating system.
.TP 4n
1.
Copy the 
.I conf/dcosx
file to the
.I common/conf.h
file.
This sets most of the compile-time configuations.
.TP 4n
2.
There is a bug in the \fC<sys/types.h>\fP include file.
Make a copy and replace the string "enum boolean" with "enum boolean_t".
There is only one.
The ANSI C and POSIX rules say that they should have used a _t suffix
or an underscore (_) prefix.
Complain to your vendor.
.RS
.ft C
.nf
% mkdir common/sys
% cp /usr/include/sys/types.h common/sys/stypes.h
% vi common/sys/types.h
\fI\&...edit the file...\fP
%
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP 4n
3.
Edit the
.I Makefile
file and select the alternatives marked "dcosx".
The horrible CC and CFLAGS macros are because the C compiler is brain-dead.
You will get a
.I huge
number of warnings when you compile aegis,
just ignore them.
You may want to consider getting gcc instead.
.TP 4n
4.
Once you have obtained gcc,
edit the Makefile and select the gcc alternatives for the CC and CFLAGS macros.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH LICENSE
The
.I aegis
program is free software;
you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation;
either version 2 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.
.PP
The
.I aegis
program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
It should be in the
.I LICENSE
file included in this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l l l.
Peter Miller;UUCP;uunet!munnari!bmr.gov.au!pmiller
\f(CW/\e/\e*\fR;Internet;pmiller@bmr.gov.au
.TE
