'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1995, 2002, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aedir 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aedir - \*(n) directory structures
.XX "aedir(5)" "directory structures"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The project directory structure is dictated by
.I \*(n)
at the top level,
but is completely under the project's control
from various points
below the top level.
.PP
The project directory has the following contents
.eB
\fIproject\fP/
	baseline/
		aegis.conf
		\fI...project specific...\fP
		test/
			\fI[0-9][0-9]\fP/
				t\fI[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]\fPa.sh
				t\fI[0-9][0-9][0-9][0-9]\fPm.sh
	history/
		\fI...echo of baseline...\fP
	delta.\fI[0-9][0-9][0-9]\fP/
		\fI...echo of baseline...\fP
	info/
		state
		change/
			\fI[0-9]\fP/
				\fI[0-9][0-9][0-9]\fP
.eE
.PP
The directory is structured in this way so that it is possible
to pick an entire project up off the disk,
and be confident that you got it all.
.PP
The location of the root of this tree is configurable,
and may even be changed during the life of a project.
.PP
The contents of the
.I baseline
subdirectory,
other than those given,
are defined by the project,
and not dictated by \*(n).
.PP
The contents of the
.I delta.NNN
directory,
when it exists,
are an image of the
.I baseline
directory.
It is frequently linked with the baseline,
rather than a copy of it;
see the
.I link_integration_directory
field description in
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information.
.PP
The contents of the
.I history
contains the edit histories of the
.I baseline
directory,
and is in all other ways an image of it.
Note that
.I baseline
always contains the latest source;
the
.I history
directory is just history.
The actual files in the history directory tree
will not always have names the same as those in the baseline;
compare the methods used by SCCS and RCS.
.PP
The contents of the
.I baseline/test
directory are the tests which are created by changes.
Test histories are also stored in the
.I history
subdirectory.
Tests are treated as project source.
.PP
The edit histories are separated out to simplify
the task of taking a "snapshot" of the source of a project,
without airing all the dirty laundry.
.PP
The
.I baseline
directory always contains the latest source,
and so the
.I history
directory need not be readily accessible,
because the build mechanism
(something like
.IR make (1),
but preferably better)
does not need to know anything about it.
Similarly for tests.
.PP
The
.I baseline/aegis.conf
file is used to tell \*(n) everything else it needs to know about a project.
See
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information.
This file  is a source file of the project,
and is treated in the same way as all source files.
The name of this file is not mandatory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
create a new change
.TP 8n
.IR aenpr (1)
create a new project
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
