'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2004 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: description of aegis file attribute format
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aefattr 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aefattr \- \*(n) file attribute file format
.XX "aefattr(5)" "file attribute file format"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBaefa -edit\fP \fI filename\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file format is used to set or edit file attributes.
.SH CONTENTS
.TP 8n
attribute = [ { ... } ];
.RS
This is a list of \fI(name,value)\fP pairs, defining user specified attributes.
.TP 8n
name = string;
.RS
The name of the attribute.
By convention, names which start with an upper-case letter will appear
in listings, and lower-case will not.
.RE
.TP 8n
value = string;
The value of the attribute.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
