'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1993-1997, 1999, 2001-2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aefstate 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aefstate \- \*(n) file state file
.XX "aefstate(5)" "file state file format"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIproject\fP\f(CW/info/change/\fP\fI[0-9]\fP\f(CW/\fP\fI[0-9][0-9][0-9]\fP.fs
.SH DESCRIPTION
A file state file is used to store information about
the files in a transaction.
These files are created and maintained by \*(n).
These files should not be edited by humans.
These files is owned by the project owner and group.
.SH CONTENTS
.TP 8n
src = [ { ... }, ... ];
.br
This field is a list of all the files in the change.
The records have the form
.RS 8n
.TP 8n
file_name = string;
.br
This file names the file.
The name is relative to the root of the baseline directory tree.
.TP 8n
uuid = string;
.br
This field uniquely identifies the file for its entire lifetime.  This
field remains constant across file renames.  The value of this field
shall be formatted as a valid UUID, all in lower case.
.TP 8n
action = (create, modify, remove, insulate, transparent);
.RS
This field describes what is being done with the file.
.TP 8n
create
The file is being created.
Once integrated, the edit fields record the file version created and
stored in the history.
.TP 8n
modify
The file is being created.
Once integrated, the edit fields record the file version
stored in the history.
.TP 8n
remove
The file is being created.
The edit field is only informational, and describes the file version at
the time it was removed from the repository.
.TP 8n
insulate
The file is insulating a development directory from changes to the
baseline, it shall be uncopied before development may end.
This action shall only be present in changes.
It shall never  be present in branch change state files.
.TP 8n
transparent
The file wasonce present in the branch, however it is desired that the
ancestor version "show through".  This is the equivalent of "uncopy"
for branches.  When the branch is integrated, this file will be omitted.
.RE
.TP 8n
edit = { ... };
.RS
For a project or an active branch, this field records the
head revision of the file.
For a completed change or branch, this field records
the revision number after integrate pass.
.TP 8n
revision = string;
This is the edit number, as reported by the \fIhistory_\%get_\%command\fP
in the project \fIconfig\fP file at integrate pass time.
.TP 8n
encoding = (none, quoted_printable, base64);
.RS
This field records the encoding used when the file was added to
the history at integrate pass time, as configured by one of the
\fIhistory_\%put_\%command\fP or \fIhistory_\%get_\%command\fP
and \fIhistory_\%content_\%limitation\fP fields
of the project \fIconfig\fP file.
.TP 8n
none
No encoding was applied to the file.  Either it had no binary characters,
or the history tool is able to cope with binary files.
.TP 8n
quoted_printable
The MIME Quoted Printable encoding (see RFC 1521) has been used to
escape the binary characters of the file content.
.TP 8n
base64
The MIME Base 64 encoding (see RFC 1521) has been used to encode the
file content.
.PP
The \fIhistory_content_limitation\fP field of the project \fIconfig\fP
file is used to determine which files need encoding.  The size of the
encoded file is compared to determine which of quoted printable and base
64 encodings is used; the smaller is chosen.
.RE
.RE
.TP 8n
edit_number = string;
.br
This field is obsolescent.  It is only present for backwards
compatibility.  It has been replaced by the \fIedit\fP field.
.TP 8n
edit_origin = { ... };
.RS
This field records the edit number of the file
when it was added to the change or branch.
In changes, this field is not present for new files.
(A change file is out of date if it's edit number_origin field does not equal
the edit_number field in the project.)
.PP
It has the same fields, with the same meaning, as the \fIedit\fP field, above.
.RE
.TP 8n
edit_number_origin = string;
.RS
This field is obsolescent.  It is only present for backwards
compatibility.  It has been replaced by the \fIedit_origin\fP field.
.RE
.TP 8n
edit_origin_new = { ... };
.RS
This field records the edit number of the file
to replace the edit_number_origin field in the branch at integrate pass time.
This is used to perform cross branch merging.
This field cleared at integrate pass time.
.PP
It has the same fields, with the same meaning, as the \fIedit\fP field, above.
.RE
.TP 8n
edit_number_origin_new = string;
.RS
This field is obsolescent.  It is only present for backwards
compatibility.  It has been replaced by the \fIedit_origin_new\fP field.
.RE
.TP 8n
usage = (source, config, build, test, manual_test);
.br
This field describes what function the file serves.
.TP 8n
file_fp = fingerprint;
.RS
This field records the last time modified of the source file.
It is only present between the
.I being_developed
and
.I being_integrated
states,
inclusive (for both changes and branches).
It is not present for files which are being deleted.
This field is used to determine if a difference has been done,
or a test has been done if the source file is a test,
and if the file has been tampered with before state transitions.
.PP
The fingerprint consists of the following fields:
.TP 8n
youngest = time;
.br
The youngest time see for this file with this fingerprint.
.TP 8n
oldest = time;
.br
The oldest time see for this file with this fingerprint.
.TP 8n
crypto = string;
.br
This field records a cryptographically strong fingerprint for the file.
There is no known method of constructing a file to match a given
fingerprint, and there is less than 1 in 2**200 chance that two files
will have the same fingerprint.  Thus if the fingerprint is the same,
the file can reliably assumed to be the same.
.RE
.TP 8n
diff_file_fp = fingerprint;
.br
This field records the last time modified of the difference file
when the last
.I "\*(n) -DIFFerence"
command was run.
It is only present between the
.I being_developed
and
.I being_integrated
states,
inclusive (for both changes and branches).
This field is used to determine if a difference has been done,
and if the difference file has been tampered with before state transitions.
.TP 8n
idiff_file_fp = fingerprint;
.br
This field records the last time modified of the integration difference file
when the last
.I "\*(n) -DIFFerence"
command was run.
It is only present in the
.I being_integrated
state.
This field is used to determine if a difference has been done.
.TP 8n
architecture_times = [{ ... }];
.RS
This field records the time of various operations
for each variant named in the
.I architecture
field.
It is only present in the
.I being_developed
and
.I being_integrated
states.
This field is used to determine if a test has been done,
and thus optimize test runs.
.TP 8n
variant = string;
.br
This field is one of the patterns named in the
.I architecture
field.
.TP 8n
test_time = time;
.br
This field records the last time the last successful
.I "\*(n) -Test"
command was run for this specific pattern instance.
.TP 8n
test_baseline_time = time;
.br
This field records the last time the last successful
.I "\*(n) -Test -BaseLine"
command was run for this specific pattern instance.
.RE
.TP 8n
move = string;
.br
To change the name of a file,
a combination of deleting the old name and creating the new name is used.
With deleted files, this field is used to say where it went.
With new files, this field is used to say where it came from.
.TP 8n
locked_by = integer;
The change which locked this file.
.br
Caveat: this field is redundant,
you can figure it out by scanning all of he change files.
Having it here is very convenient,
even though it means multiple updates.
.TP 8n
about_to_be_created_by = integer;
The change which is about to create this file for the first time.
Same caveat as above.
.TP 8n
about_to_be_copied_by = integer;
For each change file that is acting on a project file from a deeper baseline
than the immediate parent project's baseline,
the file needs to be added to the immediate parent project.
Note that this field says that this file record is a place marker,
so that it can be deleted again should the change not be integrated
for some reason.
.TP 8n
deleted_by = integer;
The change which last deleted this file.
We never throw them away, because
(a) it may be created again, and more important
(b) we need it to recreate earlier deltas.
.RE
.TP 8n
test = [ string ];
This field is used to remember test correlations for source files.
This is used by
.IR aet (1)
to suggest suitable tests.
.so aemetrics.so
.TP 8n
executable = boolean;
.RS
This field is used to remember whether the source file had any executable
permission bits set at \fIdevelop end\fP time.  This mode will be restored
(taking the project umask into account) when the file is copied.
.PP
This field is only meaningful for changes in the \fIcompleted\fP state,
because this field is only set by \fIaeip\fP(1).  Until then, the mode
if the file itself is the authority.
.RE
.TP 8n
attribute = [ { ... } ];
.RS
This is a list of \fI(name,value)\fP pairs, defining user specified attributes.
.TP 8n
name = string;
.RS
The name of the attribute.
By convention, names which start with an upper-case letter will appear
in listings, and lower-case will not.
Attribute names are case-insensitive.
.RE
.TP 8n
value = string;
The value of the attribute.
.PP
Arguably, most file properties which may be altered by the user (and
some that can't) should be of this form.  Due to an accident of history,
this is not the case.
.RE
.SH WRITING REPORT SCRIPTS
When attempting to access these fields from within the report generator,
you need a code fragment similar to the following:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
auto ps, pfs;
ps = project[project_name()].state;
fps = ps.src["somefile"];
.sp 0.5
auto cs, cfs;
cs = ps.branch.change[change_number()];
cfs = cs.src["somefile"];
.ft R
.fi
.RE
Notice that the top-level fields of the file state are not available,
but instead are mapped onto the relevant project file and change file
\fIsrc\fP arrays.
.PP
All of the src member fields mentioned in the man page can now be accessed
as members of the \f[CW]pfs\fP or \f[CW]cfs\fP variables.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
