'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1995, 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH \*(n) 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) - file format
.XX "aegis(5)" "file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The files used by the
.I \*(n)
program all have the same format.
Some of the files used by \*(n) are created and maintained by humans,
and some are created an maintained by \*(n) itself.
The various manual entries say which is which.
.SH LEXICAL CONSIDERATIONS
Names are any C identifier.
Comments are C-style comments (or C++ or shell).
Numbers are decimal, octal or hexadecimal, as for C constants.
Whitespace (spaces, tabs and newlines) are ignored
except in strings or as they serve to separate tokens.
.PP
Strings are C-style strings, and similar to C, sequential string constants
are silently catenated together.
.PP
In addition, there is a style of \f[CW]@string@\fP which use at-signs (@)
for quoting.  Unlike the C style of string, newlines are allowed within
these strings.  To get an at-sign in such a string, double the at-sign.
There is no other escape mechanism available.
.SH GRAMMAR
The format of all \*(n) files is described by a
.I yacc (1)
grammar.
.eB
%%
file
	: field_list
	;
.eE
A file contains a field list.
.eB
field_list
	: /* empty */
	| field_list field
	;
.eE
A field list is zero or more fields.
.eB
field
	: NAME '=' value ';'
	;
.eE
A field is set by giving a name and a value.
.eB
value
	: NAME
	| INTEGER
	| STRING
	| structure
	| list
	;
.eE
A value may be a member of an enumeration (NAME),
or an integer constant,
or a literal string.
More complex values may be constructed from these simple values.
.eB
structure
	: '{' field_list '}'
	;
.eE
A structure is a grouped list of fields.
.eB
list
	: '[' list_body ']'
	;
list_body
	: /* empty */
	| value_list
	| value_list ','
	;
value_list
	: value
	| value_list ',' value
.eE
A list is a sequential list of values separated by commas.
It may be empty,
or it may have a trailing comma.
.SH SEMANTICS
The types of the values must match those in the definition
of the file.
See the relevant man pages for more information.
.PP
Files which are rewritten by
.B \*(n)
will lose any comments placed in them.
When time fields are emitted by
.B \*(n)
they are usually followed by a human readable date in a comment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (1)
a project change supervisor
.TP 8n
.IR aecattr (5)
change attribute file format
.TP 8n
.IR aecstate (5)
change state file format
.TP 8n
.IR aedir (5)
directory structures
.TP 8n
.IR aegstate (5)
\*(n) state file
.TP 8n
.IR aepattr (5)
project attribute file format
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aepstate (5)
project state file format
.TP 8n
.IR aesub (5)
available command substitutions
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeustate (5)
user state file format
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
