'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1999, 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) locking" 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis locks \- how locking works, and which commands use them
.XX "aelock(5)" " how locking works, and which commands use them"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Aegis maintains a database of information about the projects in its care,
and the various changes, both completed and in progress.  In order to
ensure the integrity of this database, and also your project repository,
it uses locks.
.P
From time to time, these locks are visible to the users, because they
will be told that a command is waiting for a particular lock.
For some transactions, this can be a long wait.
.SS Dining Philosophers
While UNIX supplies locks in various flavors, if you need an entire
set of locks simultaneously, there is no elegant \[lq]all or nothing \[rq]
interface available.  This is unsurprising, as this is one of the classic
computer science problems, known as the Dining Philosophers problem.
.P
The master lock is used to solve the Dining Philosophers problem,
and is meant to be very transient.  It is only held while the other
locks which are required (frequently two or more, hence the problem)
are requested - non-blocking.  Once they are all obtained (or not, and
any partials given back) the master lock is released.  It is usually held
for \fImuch\fP less than a second.  If you notice the master lock being
held, it is almost always a symptom of the NFS lock daemon misbehaving.
.P
If the lock(s) could not be obtained, the blocking lock is waited
on (without the master).  This is when the "waiting for" message
is issued.  When obtained, it is \fIreleased\fP and the whole cycle
starts again.  This is why you occasionally see a series of "waiting
for" messages.  (This could maybe be optimized some, but it is
still possible to block on yet another lock, and they you have to
release all and wait again.  As yet, I'm not convinced the extra
code complexity is required.)
.SS Listing Locks
There is a command available to list the current Aegis locks.
.RS
aegis -list locks
.RE
Note that the project names are change numbers are \fIguesses\fP as the
locks are hashed over a 16-bit range, and range overlaps are possible.
Collisions are also possible, but fortunately rarer.
.SS Known Problems
There is a known problem with the HP/UX NFS clients.  If you see
persistent "no locks available" error messages when \fI\*(L)\fP is NFS
mounted, try making the \fI\*(L)/lockfile\fP file world writable.
.E(
chmod 666 \*(L)/lockfile
.E)
There is the possibility of a denial of service attack (which is why
the default is 0600) but since you are presently denied service anyway,
it's academic.
.SH COMMANDS
The following table shows the locks taken by the various commands.
Note that theoretically some of the commands take too \fIfew\fP locks,
but this has yet to prove to be a problem in practice.  Also, "project
state file" and "change state file" are the same thing for branches,
it just depends which way you are looking at them at the time.
.\" do not warn "cannot adjust line"
.warn (\n[.warn]-(((\n[.warn]/4)%2)*4))
.TS
tab(;);
l cw(9n) cw(9n) cw(9n) cw(9n) cw(9n) cw(9n).
Command;T{
Global State File
T};T{
Project State File
T};T{
Project Base\%line
T};T{
Ance\%stor Base\%lines
T};T{
Change State File
T};T{
User State File
T}
_
aeb (dev);\&.;\&.;shared;shared;exclusive;\&.
aeb (int);\&.;\&.;\&.;shared;exclusive;\&.
aeca;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aechown;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aeclean;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aeclone;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aecp;\&.;,;,;,;exclusive;\&.
aecpu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aed;\&.;,;,;,;exclusive;\&.
aedb;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aedbu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aede;\&.;,;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aedeu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aedn;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aeib;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aeibu;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aeifail;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aeipass;\&.;exclusive;exclusive;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aemv;\&.;,;,;,;exclusive;\&.
aena;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenbr;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenbru;exclusive;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenc;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aencu;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aend;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenf;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aenfu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aeni;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenpa;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenpr;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aenrv;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aent;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aentu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aepa;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aera;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aerd;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aerfail;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;exclusive
aeri;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aerm;\&.;,;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aermu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aermpr;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aerpa;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aerpass;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aerpu;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.;exclusive;\&.
aerrv;\&.;exclusive;\&.;\&.;\&.;\&.
aet;\&.;\&.;,;,;exclusive;\&.
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
You may wish to see the manual pages of all of the above commands.
Many have descriptions of the locking interactions.
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
