'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1994-2003, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.so etc/libdir.so
.TH aer 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aer \- aegis report script language definition
.XX "aer(5)" "report script language definition"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual entry describes the report generator script language used by the
.IR aer (1)
command.
The language resembles C, with a touch of
.I awk
and
.I perl
for flavour.
It also closely resembles the appearance of \*(n)' database files.
.PP
This language grew out of the need to have a general purpose programming
language to describe reports,
and yet be as familiar as possible to the people who will be using it.
.SH WORDS AND SYMBOLS
This section describes the various words and symbols
understood by the language.
.SS Names
A name is a contiguous set of alphanumeric characters, including underscore (_).
It must not start with a digit.
Names may be of any length.
Names are case sensitive,
so uppercase and lowercase letters are unique.
.PP
Here are some examples of names
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
c c c.
print;sqrt;if
how_long;UpperCase;dig57
.TE
.PP
Some words are
.I reserved
as keywords.
These are the words which appear in
.B bold
in the statement descriptions,
below.
.SS Integer Constants
An integer constant may be decimal,
any sequence of digits.
Constants may be octal,
any sequence of octal digits starting with a zero.
Constant may be hexadecimal,
any sequence of hexadecimal digits,
starting with a \f(CW0x\fP prefix.
These are represented by the internal \f(CWlong\fP type,
so significance is limited.
.PP
Here are some examples of integer constants:
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
r r r.
43;015;0xbeEf
2147483647;017777777777;0x7FFFFFFF
.TE
.SS Floating Point Constants
A floating point constant
has an integer part,
a fraction part and an exponent part.
.PP
Here are some examples of floating point constants:
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
r r r.
1.2e3;4.2e+1;1.628e-94
0.567;5e6;.67
.TE
.SS String Constants
A string constant is represented as characters within double quotes (").
All characters in the script file are required to be printable,
so special characters are represented by
.I "escape sequences."
These escape sequences are:
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
lf(CW) l.
\e";the \f(CW"\fP character
\e\e;the \f(CW\e\fP character
\en;Newline
\ef;Form Feed
\er;Carriage Return
\eb;Backspace
\et;Horizontal Tab
\e\fInnn\fP;octal character value
.TE
.PP
Here are some examples of string constants:
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
c c c.
"Hello, World!";"Go away";""
"The End\n";"slosh is \e\e";"Say \e"Please\e""
.TE
.SS Symbols
The non\[hy]alphanumeric characters are used to represent symbols,
usually expression operators or statement terminators.
The symbols used include:
.TS
center,box,tab(@);
cf(CW) cf(CW) cf(CW) cf(CW) cf(CW).
!@!=@!~@##@##=
%@%=@&@&&@&=
(@)@*@**@**=
*=@+@++@+=@,
\-@\-\-@\-=@.@/
/=@:@;@<@<<
<<=@<=@\&=@==@>
>=@>>@>>=@?@[
]@^@^=@{@|
|=@||@}@~@~~
.TE
.SS White Space
White space serves to separate words and symbols,
and has no other significance.
The language is free\[hy]form.
White space includes the
SPACE,
TAB,
FF,
and
NEWLINE
characters.
.SS Comments
Comments are delimited by \f(CW/*\fP and \f(CW*/\fP pairs,
and are treated as a single white space character.
.SH STATEMENTS
Statement serve to control the flow of execution of the program,
or the existence of variables.
.SS The Expression Statement
The commonest statement consists of an expression
terminated by a semicolon.
The expression is evaluated,
and any result is discarded.
.PP
Examples of this statement include
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
x = 42;
print("Hello, World!\n");
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS The If Statement
The
.I if
statement is used to conditionally execute portions of code.
Examples if the
.I if
statement include:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
if (x == 42)
    x = 1;
if (x * x < 1)
    print("no");
else
    print("yes");
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS The For Statement
The
.I for
statement has two forms.
The first form is described as
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
for (\fIexpr1\fP; \fIexpr2\fP; \fIexpr3\fP)
    \fIstmt\fP
.ft R
.fi
.RE
The
.I expr1
is done before the loop begins.
The
.I expr2
controls, the loop;
if it does not evaluate to \f(CWtrue\fP
the loop terminates.
The loop body is the
.IR stmt .
The loop increment is done by the
.IR expr3 ,
and the the test is performed again.
.PP
Each of the expressions is optional;
any or all may be omitted.
.PP
Here is an example of a
.I for
loop:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
for (j = 0; j < 10; ++j)
    print(j);
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
The second form of the
.I for
statement looks like this:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
for (name in keys(passwd))
    print(name, passwd[name].pw_comment);
.ft R
.fi
.FE
.SS The Break Statement
The
.I break
statement is used to break out of a loop.
.PP
Here is an example of a
.I break
statement:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
for (j = 0; ; j = 2 * j + 4)
{
    print(j);
    if (j >= 0x800)
        break;
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
The
.I break
statement works within all loop statements.
.SS The Continue Statement
The
.I continue
statement is used to terminate the loop body and start another repetition.
.PP
Here is an example of a
.I continue
statement:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
for (j = 0; j < 1000; j = 2 * j + 4)
{
    if (j < 42)
        continue;
    print(j);
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
The
.I continue
statement works within all loop statements.
.SS The While Statement
The
.I while
statement is another loop construct.
The condition is evaluated before the loop body.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
line = 0;
while (line < 7)
{
    print("");
    ++line;
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS The Do Statement
The
.I do
statement is another loop construct.
The condition is evaluate after the loop body.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
do
    print("yuck");
while
    (line++ < 7);
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS The Compound Statement
The
.I compound
statement is a way of grouping other statements
together.
It is enclosed in curly braces.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
if ( lines < 7)
{
    print("This\en");;
    print("could\en");;
    print("have\en");;
    print("been\en");;
    print("seven\en");;
    print("blank\en");;
    print("lines.\en");;
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.SS The Local Statement
The
.I auto
statement is used to declare variables
and initialize them to be nul.
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
auto x, y, z;
x = 42;
.ft R
.fi
.RE
All user\[hy]defined variables must be declared before they are used.
.SS The Null Statement
The
.I null
statement does nothing.
It consists of a single semicolon.
It is most often seen as a loop body.
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
for (n = 0, bit = 1; n < bit_num; ++n, bit <<= 1)
    ;
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SS The Try Catch Statement
The \fItry catch\fP statement is used to catch errors which would usually
cause the report to fail.
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
.ta 0.5i 1i 1.5i
try
    \fIstatement1\fP
catch (\fIvariable\fP)
    \fIstatement2\fP
.fi
.ft R
.RE
The first statement is executed.
If no error occurs, nothing else is done.
If an error occurs in the execution of the first statement
the firsdt statement execution is terminated and then
the given variable is set to a description of the
error and the second statement is executed.
.SH EXPRESSIONS
Expressions are much the same as in C,
using the same operators.
The following table describes operator precedence
and associativity:
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
.;member selection;\fIvalue\fP . \fImember\fP
[ ];subscripting;\fIvalue\fP [ \fIexpr\fP ]
( );function call;\fIexpr\fP ( \fIexpr_list\fP )
( );grouping;( \fIexpr\fP )
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
++;post increment;\fIlvalue\fP ++
++;pre increment;++\fIlvalue\fP
\-\-;post decrement;\fIlvalue\fP \-\-
\-\-;pre decrement;\-\-\fIlvalue\fP
~;compliment;~ \fIexpr\fP
!;not;! \fIexpr\fP
-;unary minus;\- \fIexpr\fP
+;unary plus;+ \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
**;exponentiation;\fIexpr\fP ** \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
*;multiply;\fIexpr\fP * \fIexpr\fP
/;divide;\fIexpr\fP / \fIexpr\fP
%;modulo (remainder);\fIexpr\fP % \fIexpr\fP
~~;matches;\fIexpr\fP ~~ \fIexpr\fP
!~;does not match;\fIexpr\fP !~ \fIexpr\fP
in;list member;\fIexpr\fP in \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
+;addition (plus);\fIexpr\fP + \fIexpr\fP
\-;subtraction (minus);\fIexpr\fP \- \fIexpr\fP
##;list and string join;\fIexpr\fP ## \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
<<;shift left;\fIexpr\fP << \fIexpr\fP
>>;shift right;\fIexpr\fP >> \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
<;less than;\fIexpr\fP < \fIexpr\fP
<=;less than or equal;\fIexpr\fP <= \fIexpr\fP
>;greater than;\fIexpr\fP > \fIexpr\fP
>=;greater than or equal;\fIexpr\fP >= \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
==;equal;\fIexpr\fP == \fIexpr\fP
!=;not equal;\fIexpr\fP != \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
&;bitwise AND;\fIexpr\fP & \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
^;bitwise exclusive OR;\fIexpr\fP ^ \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
|;bitwise inclusive OR;\fIexpr\fP | \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
? :;arithmetic if;\fIexpr\fP ? \fIexpr\fP : \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
\&=;simple assignment;\fIexpr\fP = \fIexpr\fP
*=;multiply and assign;\fIexpr\fP *= \fIexpr\fP
/=;divide and assign;\fIexpr\fP /= \fIexpr\fP
%=;modulo and assign;\fIexpr\fP %= \fIexpr\fP
+=;add and assign;\fIexpr\fP += \fIexpr\fP
-=;subtract and assign;\fIexpr\fP \-= \fIexpr\fP
<<=;shift left and assign;\fIexpr\fP <<= \fIexpr\fP
>>=;shift right and assign;\fIexpr\fP >>= \fIexpr\fP
&=;AND and assign;\fIexpr\fP &= \fIexpr\fP
^=;exclusive OR and assign;\fIexpr\fP ^= \fIexpr\fP
|=;inclusive OR and assign;\fIexpr\fP |= \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.sp
.TS
tab(;);
lf(CW)w(0.5i) lw(2.5i) lf(CW)w(1i).
,;comma (sequencing);\fIexpr\fP , \fIexpr\fP
.TE
.PP
Most of these operators behave as they do in C, but
some of these operators will require some explanation.
.SS Exponentiation
The \f(CW**\fP operator raises the left argument to the right'th power.
It is right associative.
.SS Match
The \f(CW~~\fP operator compares two strings.
It returns a number between 0.0 and 1.0.
Zero means completely different,
one means identical.
Case is significant.
.SS Not Match
The \f(CW!~\fP is used to compare two strings,
and returns the opposite of the \f(CW~~\fP operator;
one if completely different, and zero if identical.
.SS String Join
The \f(CW##\fP operator is used to join two strings together.
.SH TYPES
There are several types used within the report language.
.TP 8n
array
Values of this type contain other values,
indexed by a string.
If you attempt to index by an arithmetic type,
it will be silently converted to a string.
Use the
.I keys
function to determine all of the keys;
use the
.I count
function to determine how many entries an array has.
The type of an array element is not restricted,
only the index must be a string.
.TP 8n
boolean
This type has two values: \f(CWtrue\fP and \f(CWfalse\fP.
These value arise from the boolean operators described
earlier.
.TP 8n
integer
This type is represented by the
.I long
C type.
It has a limited range of values (usually \-2e9 to 2e9 approximately).
If used in a string context,
it will be silently converted to a string.
For exact control of the format,
used the
.I sprintf
function.
.TP 8n
list
Values of this type contain a list of other values.
The type of these values is not restricted.
The array index operator (e[e]) may be used to access list elements;
indexes start at zero (0).
.TP 8n
string
Values of this type are an arbitrary string of C characters,
except the NUL character (\0).
Strings may be of any length.
.TP 8n
struct
Values of this type contain additional values.
These values are accessed using the "dot" operator.
These values may also be treated as if they were arrays.
.TP 8n
real
This type is represented the the
.I double
C type.
If used in a string context,
it will be silently converted to a string.
For exact control of the format,
used the
.I sprintf
function.
.SH FUNCTIONS
There are a number of built\[hy]in functions.
.\" ------------------------------ A ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ B ------------------------------
.TP 8n
basename
This function is used to extract the last element from a file path.
.\" ------------------------------ C ------------------------------
.TP 8n
capitalize
This function converts it argument to a capitalized string in Title Case.
.TP 8n
ceil
This function is used to round a number to an integer,
towards positive infinity.
.TP 8n
change_number
This function is used to determine the change number.
It may be set by the
.B \-Change
command line option,
or it may default.
The return value is an integer.
.TP 8n
change_number_set
This function maybe used to determine if the
change number was set by the
.B \-Change
command line option.
The return value is a boolean.
.TP 8n
columns
This function is used to define the report columns.
Each argument is a structure containing some or all of the following fields:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l lw(4i).
left;T{
the left margin, counting characters from 0 on the left
T}
right;T{
the right margin, plus one
T}
width;T{
the width in characters,
defaults to 7 if right not specified
T}
padding;T{
white space between columns,
defaults to 1 if not set
T}
title;T{
the title for this column,
separate multiple lines with \en
T}
.TE
The columns must be defined before the
.I print
function is used.
.TP 8n
count
This function is used to count the number of elements in a list or array.
.\" ------------------------------ D ------------------------------
.TP 8n
dirname
This function is used to extract all but the last element from a file path.
.TP 8n
downcase
This functions converts its argument to lower case.
.\" ------------------------------ E ------------------------------
.TP 8n
eject
This function is used to start a new page of output.
.\" ------------------------------ F ------------------------------
.TP 8n
floor
This function is used to round a number to an integer,
towards negative infinity.
.\" ------------------------------ G ------------------------------
.TP 8n
getenv
This function is used to get the value of an environment variable.
Will return the empty string if not set.
.TP 8n
gettime
This function is used to parse a string to produce a time.
It understands a variety of different date formats.
.TP 8n
getuid
This function takes no arguments, and returns the user ID of the process
which invoked the report generator. The return value is an integer.
.\" ------------------------------ H ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ I ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ J ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ K ------------------------------
.TP 8n
keys
This function may be given an array or a list as argument.
It returns a list of keys which may be used to index the argument.
Most often seen in for loops.
.\" ------------------------------ L ------------------------------
.TP 8n
length
This function is used to find the length of a string.
.\" ------------------------------ M ------------------------------
.TP 8n
mktime
This a synonym for the
.I gettime
function.
.TP 8n
mtime
This function may be used to obtain the modification time of a file.
.\" ------------------------------ N ------------------------------
.TP 8n
need
This function is used to insert a page break into the report
if the required number of lines is not available before the end of page.
If sufficient lines are available,
only a single blank line will be inserted.
The return value is void.
.TP 8n
now
This function takes no arguments, and returns the current time.
.\" ------------------------------ O ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ P ------------------------------
.TP 8n
page_length
This function may be used to determine the length of the output page
in lines.
The return value is an integer.
.TP 8n
page_width
This function may be used to determine the width of the output page
in columns.
The return value is an integer.
.TP 8n
print
This function is used to print into the defined columns.
Columns will wrap around.
.TP 8n
project_name
This function is used to determine the project name.
It may be set by the
.B \-Project
command line option,
or it may default.
The return value is a string.
.TP 8n
project_name_set
This function maybe used to determine if the
project name was set by the
.B \-Project
command line option.
The return value is a boolean.
.\" ------------------------------ Q ------------------------------
.TP 8n
quote_html
This function quotes its argument string to insulate HTML special
characters; these include \[lq]less than\[rq] (\fC<\fP),
\[lq]ampersand\[rq] (\fC&\fP)
and non\[hy]printing characters.  This is most often used to generate suitable
text for web pages.
.TP 8n
quote_tcl
This function quotes its argument string to insulate TCL special
characters; these include \[lq][]\[rq] and non\[hy]printing characters.
This is most often used to generate suitable text for TCL interface scripts.
.TP 8n
quote_url
This function quotes its argument string to insulate URL special
characters; these include \[lq]?+#:&=\[rq] and non\[hy]printing characters.
This is most often used to generate suitable text for web pages.
.\" ------------------------------ R ------------------------------
.TP 8n
round
This function is used to round a number to an integer,
towards the closest integer.
.\" ------------------------------ S ------------------------------
.TP 8n
sort
This function must be given a list as argument.
The values are sorted into ascending order.
A new list is returned.
.TP 8n
split
This function is used to split a string into a list of strings.
The first argument is the string to split,
the second argument is the character to split around.
.TP 8n
sprintf
This function is used to build strings.
It is similar to the
.IR sprintf (3)
function.
.TP 8n
strftime
This function is used to format times as strings.
The first argument is the format string, the second argument is a time.
See the
.IR strftime (3)
man page for more the format specifiers.
.TP 8n
subst
This function is used to substitute strings by regular expression.
The first argument is the pattern to match,
the second argument is the substitution pattern,
the third argument is the input string to be substituted.
The option fourth argument is the number of substitutions to perform;
the default is as many as possible.
.TP 8n
substr
This function is used to extract substrings from strings.
The first argument is a string,
the second argument is the starting position,
starting from 0,
and the third argument is the length.
.\" ------------------------------ T ------------------------------
.TP 8n
terse
This function may be used to determine of the
.B \-TERse
command line option was used.
The return type is a boolean.
.TP 8n
title
This function is used to set the title of the report.
It takes at most two arguments,
one for each available title line.
.TP 8n
trunc
This function is used to round a number to an integer,
towards zero.
.TP 8n
typeof
This function is used to
determine the type of a value.
The return type is a string
containing the name of the type,
as described in the
.\" ------------------------------ U ------------------------------
.TP 8n
unquote_url
This function will remove URL quoting from the argument string.
URL quoting takes the form of a percent sign (%) followed by two
hex digits.  This is replaced by a single character with the value
represented by the hex digits.
.TP 8n
upcase
This functions converts its argument to upper case.
.\" ------------------------------ V ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ W ------------------------------
.TP 8n
working_days
This function is used to determine the number of working days between
two times.
.TP 8n
wrap
This function is used to wrap a string into a list of strings.
The first argument is the wring to wrap,
the second argument is the maxmium width of the output strings.
.TP 8n
wrap_html
This function is used to wrap a string into a list of strings.  The first
argument is the wring to wrap, the second argument is the maxmium width of
the output strings.  This is very similar to the \fIwrap\fP functions,
except thatit inserts HTML paragraph breaks <p> or line breaks <br>
to reflect the newlines within the string (2 or 1, respectively).
.I TYPES
section.
.\" ------------------------------ X ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ Y ------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------ Z ------------------------------
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------
.SH VARIABLES
There are a number of built\[hy]in variables.
.\" ------------------------------ A ------------------------------
.TP 8n
arg
This variable is a list
containing the arguments passed on the
.IR aer (1)
command line.
.\" ------------------------------ C ------------------------------
.TP 8n
change
.RS
There is a special type of variable created by using an expression similar
to \fIproject[project_name()].state.change[n]\fP which contains all of the
fields described in aecstate\fP(5), plus some extras:
.TP 8n
change
Branches have a change array, just like \fIproject\fP below.
.TP 8n
change_number
The number of the change.
.TP 8n
config
This gives access to all of the fields described in \fIaepconf\gP(5).
.TP 8n
project_name
The name of the project containing the change.
.TP 8n
src
This gives access to the change files, and when indexed by file name,
yields a value conataining fields as described in \fIaefstate\fP(5),
for the \fIsrc\fP field.
.RE
.\" ------------------------------ G ------------------------------
.TP 8n
group
This variable is an array containing all of the entries
in the
.I /etc/group
file.
Each entry is a structure with fields as documented in the
.IR group (5)
manual entry.
The
.I gr_mem
element is a list of strings.
This array may be indexed by either a string,
treated as a group name,
or by an integer,
treated as a GID.
.\" ------------------------------ P ------------------------------
.TP 8n
passwd
This variable is an array containing all of the entries
in the
.I /etc/passwd
file.
Each entry is a structure with fields as documented in the
.IR passwd (5)
manual entry.
This array may be indexed by either a string,
treated as a user name,
or by an integer,
treated as a uid.
.TP 8n
project
This variable is an array containing one entry for each \*(n) project,
indexed by name.
Each array element is a structure, containing
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l.
name;the project name
directory;the root of the project directory tree
state;the project state
.TE
The project state contains the fields documented in the
.IR aepstate (5)
manual entry.
Except:
the
.I "change"
field is not a list of change numbers,
it is an array indexed by change number of change states,
as documented in the
.IR aecstate (5)
manual entry.
(See \fIchange\fP, above.)
.TP 8n
user
This variable is an array containing the \fI\.aegisrc\fP file of
each user.  Each entry is a structure with fields as documented in the
\fIaeuconf\fP(5) manual entry.  This array may be indexed by either a
string, treated as a user name, or by an integer, treated as a uid.
Files which are unreadable or absent will generate an error, so you need
to wrap accesses in a try/catch statement.
(Note: \f[CW]count()\fP and \f[CW]keys()\fP functions think the array
is empty; if you want a list of users, consult the \f[CW]passwd\fP array.)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
The reports are kept in the
.I \*(D)/report
directory.
The reports are associated with a name by the
.I \*(D)/report.index
file.
Their names use the command line argument abbreviation scheme,
so that report names may be abbreviated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aer (1)
report generator
.TP 8n
.IR aecstate (5)
change state description
.TP 8n
.IR aepstate (5)
project state description
.TP 8n
.IR aerptidx (5)
report index file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
