'\" t
.\"     aegis - project change supervisor
.\"     Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1999, 2006-2008, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.so etc/libdir.so
.TH aerptidx 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aerptidx \- aegis report index file format
.XX "aerptidx(5)" "report index file format"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft CW
\*(D)/report.index
.br
\*(D)/report.local
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The report index file is used to store pointers to report scripts,
and descriptions of the reports.
.PP
When searching for a report,
the
.IR aer (1)
command searches down the
.I AEGIS_PATH
looking for
.I report.index
files,
and searching them for the report named.
.SH CONTENTS
.TP 8n
where = [{ ... }];
.br
This field is a table relating report name to file name.
The structure is as follows:
.RS
.TP 8n
name = string;
.br
The name of a report.
The command line argument naming scheme is used,
to provide abbreviatable names.
.TP 8n
description = string;
.br
A brief description of the report.
It should not be very long,
one or two lines at most.
.TP 8n
filename = string;
.br
The name of the file containing the report script.
If a relative path is given,
it will be interpreted to be relative to the directory containing the
.I report.index
file.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aer (1)
report generator
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
