'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1993-1995, 1997-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aesub 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aesub \- available command substitutions
.XX "aesub(5)" "available command substitutions"
.SH DESCRIPTION
When other programs are invoked by the
.I aegis
program,
it is usually via a command string in a configuration file.
This section describes the format of these command strings.
.SH GENERAL FORM
The command strings are very similar to shell variables.
An example will illustrate this:
.RS 8n
.nf
build_command =
	"cook project=${project} change=${change}";
.fi
.RE
In this command definition,
the "${project}" part is a substitution:
the name of the project will be substituted
in the command at this point.
.PP
Substitutions may take several forms:
.TP 8n
$name
.br
This is the same as saying "${name}".
The name must start with an alphabetic,
and be followed by zero or more alphanumerics.
.TP 8n
${name}
.br
The name in this form may contain any non-blank characters,
and it may be subject to substitution.
.TP 8n
${name \fIarg\fP...}
.br
The name and the arguments in this form may contain any non-blank characters,
and it may be subject to further substitution.
Within the braces (\fB{\fP and \fB}\fP)
pairs of single quote characters (\fB'\fP\fIblah blah\fP\fB'\fP)
may be used to insulate spaces and other special characters,
or you may use the back quote (\fB\e\fP) to escape a single character.
.TP 8n
$$
.br
This is replaced by a single $ character.
It avoid RCS expansions, you can also use ${$}.
.TP 8n
%%
.br
This is replaced by a single % character.
Percent (\fB%\fP) followed by anything else is illegal.
.TP 8n
$#...\en
This is a comment, usually found in template files
read in using the ${read_file} substitution.
It consumes all characters up to and including the next newline.
(See also ${comment}, below.)
.PP
As another example,
the
.I dirname
substitution is replaced by the directory name of the argument,
rather like the
.IR dirname (1)
command.
In the command
.RS
.nf
history_query_command =
	"get -t -g ${Dirname $History}/s.${Basename $History}";
.fi
.RE
the
.I Dirname
and
.I Basename
substitutions are used to construct a suitable path to the SCCS
file in the history directory.
.SH ABBREVIATIONS
The names of the various substitutions may be abbreviated.
In the above examples,
and in the lists which follow,
the minimum abbreviation is the uppercase letters.
All substitution name are case insensitive.
.PP
The above example could be abbreviated to
.RS
.nf
history_query_command =
	"get -t -g ${d $h}/s.${b $h}";
.fi
.RE
.PP
Ambiguous abbreviations will result in a fatal error message.
.SH SUBSTITUTIONS
There are many substitutions which are always understood,
and some which are specific to the command being substituted.
Specific entries will be defined in the relevant manual section.
.PP
The following lists contains those substitutions which are always understood:
.\" -------------------- A --------------------
.TP 8n
Active_Directory
The absolute path of the change's development directory,
if the change is between the
.I "being developed"
and
.I "awaiting integration"
states.
The absolute path of the change's integration directory,
if the change is in the
.I "being integrated"
state.
Not available when the change is in the
.I "awaiting development"
or
.I "completed"
states.
This rather like the default behaviour of the \fIaecd\fP(1) command.
.br
.TP 8n
Add_Path_Suffix
.br
This substitution may be used to add a suffix to each element of a
colon-separated path list.  The first argument is the suffix to use, the
second and subsequent arguments are the colon-separated paths to work on.
The result is a single colon separated path.  Often used in combination
with the ${search_path} substitution, below.
.TP 8n
Administrator_List
.br
Space separated list of the project's administrators.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
.TP 8n
ARCHitecture
.br
This substitution is replaced by the architecture name
appropriate for the current execution environment.
Requires no arguments.
See the
.I architecture
field of
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information.
When used in commands, you may need to surround this substitution with
the \fIquote\fP substitution (see below), if any of your architecture
names contain shell special characters.
.\" -------------------- B --------------------
.TP 8n
BaseLine
.br
Absolute path of the the project's baseline.
.TP 8n
Basename
.br
This substitution takes one argument,
a pathname.
The value of the substitution will be the last element of the pathname.
This is similar to the
.IR basename (1)
command.
.TP 8n
BAse_RElative
This substitution takes at least one pathname.  The value of the
substitution is the base-relative filenames, with any change-specific or
project baseline specific leading path removed.  The file does not have
to be a project source file.
(This is almost the inverse of the \fP$source\fP substitution, below.)
.TP 8n
BINary_DIRectory
.br
The absolute path of Aegis' architecture-specific binary (executables)
directory.  This corresponds to the \[lq]\fI./configure -bindir\fP\[rq]
option when Aegis was built.  This is where most of the Aegis executable
programs are installed.
.\" -------------------- C --------------------
.TP 8n
CAPitalize
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument.  The value of the substitution
will be the arguments with the first letter of each word forced to upper
case and the rest forced to lower case.
.TP 8n
Change
.br
.RS
This substitution provides various information about the change,
based on the argument it is given.
.TP
attribute
.RS
This substitution takes an additional argument, the name of a change
attribute (see \fIaeca\fP(1) and \fIaecattr\fP(5) for more information).
This returns the value listed in the change attributes, or the empty
string if the change does not have the named attribute.
.RE
.TP 8n
cause
This returns the cause of the change.
.TP 8n
date \fIformat\fP
This returns the completion date of the change.
See \fIDATE\fP section for additional arguments.
.TP 8n
delta
This returns the delta number of the change.
Only valid for completed changes.
.TP 8n
delta_uuid
This returns the delta UUID of the change, assigned on integrate pass, a
globally unique identifier for the state of the project when this change
was integrated (different for all repositories).
Only valid for \fIbeing_integrated\fP and \fIcompleted\fI changes.
.TP 8n
description
This returns the brief description of the change.
.TP 8n
developer
This returns the name of the developer of the change.
.TP 8n
development_directory
This returns the development directory of the change.
.TP 8n
integrator
This returns the name of the integrator of the change.
.TP 8n
integration_directory
This returns the integration directory of the change.
.TP 8n
number
This returns the number of the change.
(This is the default if no argument is given.)
.TP 8n
reviewer
This returns the name of the reviewer of the change.
.TP 8n
state
This returns the state of the change.
.TP 8n
uuid
This returns the UUID of the change.
.TP 8n
version
This returns the version of the change.
.RE
.TP 8n
Change_Attribute
.RS
This substitution takes exactly one argument.  This argument is a name
of a change attribute (see \fIaeca\fP(1) and \fIaecattr\fP(5) for more
information).  This returns the value listed in the change attributes,
or the empty string if the change does not have the named attribute.
.RE
.TP 8n
Change_Files
.RS
This is replaced by a space separated list of change file names.
There are several qualifying arguments you can give to this substitution:
.TP 8n
\fIaction\fP
You may give one or more file actions (e.g. \fImodify\fP).
Only files with one of the actions will be returned.
By default, all file actions are returned.
.TP 8n
\fItype\fP
You may give one or more file types (e.g. \fIsource\fP).
Only files with one of the types will be returned.
By default, all file types are returned.
.TP 8n
not
Inverts the sense of operations.
For example \fI${change_files not remove}\fP will return the names of
all change files not being removed.
.TP 8n
quote
This does not affect which file are selected, but it causes the file
names to be quoted if they contain shell meta-characters.
.PP
If you specify both actions and types, only files both qualifiers will
be returned.  For example \fI${change_files modify test}\fP will return
only the names of automatic test files which are being modified.
.RE
.TP 8n
Change_Developer_List
.br
Space separated list of all the change's developers.
Note that this is different than the \f[CW]Developer_\%List\fP substitution.
.TP 8n
Change_Reviewer_List
.br
Space separated list of the change's reviewers since the last \fIdevelop
end\fP.  Note that this is different than the \f[CW]Reviewer_\%List\fP
substitution.  Bt using the \fIreview_policy_command\fP field of the
project configuration file this value can have more than one reviewer,
because this allows a project to require a change to need to be reviewed
more than once before it can be integrated.
.TP 8n
COMment
.br
Inserts exactly nothing; any and all arguments are ignored.
Another form of comment is \[lq]\f[CW]$#\fP\[rq]
which extends to the end of the current line.
.TP 8n
Copyright_Years
.br
.RS
Inserts a comma separated list of copyright years from the project attributes.
This list of years is maintained by
.I aegis
at integrate begin,
and so is only guaranteed to be up-to-date
in the'\fIbeing integrated\fP' state.
Do not use this substitution in new file templates,
it is not guaranteed to be up-to-date in the '\fIbeing developed\fP' state;
use the ${date %Y} substitution in new file templates.
.PP
This list contains spaces, so if you use it to build commands, you will
probably need to quote, it as well.
.RE
.\" -------------------- D --------------------
.TP 8n
DATa_DIRectory
.br
The absolute path of Aegis' architecture-neutral library directory.
This corresponds to the \[lq]\fI./configure -datadir\fP\[rq] option
when Aegis was built.
This is where most of the scripts included with Aegis are installed.
.TP 8n
DAte
.br
With no arguments,
the output is the current date.
If there are arguments,
they form a format string.
This is similar to the
.IR date (1)
command on many UNIX systems.
For a description of the date formats,
see the
.I DATE
section,
below.
.TP 8n
DELta
.br
The delta number of the change.
This is only available when the change is in the
.I "being integrated"
state or the
.I completed
state.
.TP 8n
DEVeloper
.br
The name of the developer.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
.TP 8n
DEVeloper_List
.br
Space separated list of the project's developers.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
Note that this is different than the \f[CW]Change_\%Developer\%List\fP
substitution.
.TP 8n
Development_Directory
.br
The absolute path of the change's development directory.
Only available when the change is between the
.I "being developed"
state and the
.I "being integrated"
state.
.TP 8n
DIFF
.br
The absolute path of the diff command, as discovered when Aegis was built.
It tries to locate GNU Diff at build time to provide maximum functionality.
.TP 8n
Dirname
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument,
a pathname.
The value of the substitution will be everything but
the last element of the pathname.
This is similar to the
.IR dirname (1)
command.
.TP 8n
Dirname_RELative
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument,
a pathname.
The value of the substitution will be everything but
the last element of the pathname.
This is similar to the
.I dirname
substitution, except that if there are no directory components, it
returns dot (\[lq].\[rq]).
.TP 8n
DownCase
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument.
The value of the substitution will be the argument with
any upper case letters mapped to lower case.
.\" -------------------- E --------------------
.TP 8n
EMail_Address
.RS
This substitution takes one or more user names as arguments.
It replaces them with email addresses.
(It is an error if any user name is unknown.)
.PP
This substitution takes options.  You may specify one or more of them
immediately after the substitution name.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Comma\fP
This option may be used to specify that the email addresses are to be
separated by commas.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Quote\fP
This option may be used to specify that the email addresses are to be
quoted to insulate shell special characters.
.RE
.TP 8n
ENVironment
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument.
The value of the substitution is the value of the corresponding
environment variable, or empty of undefined.
.TP 8n
ERrno
.br
This substitution takes no arguments.
The value of the substitution will be
the value if the \fIerrno\fP variable provided by the system,
as mapped through the \fIstrerror\fP function.
Thus you may give the users informative system error messages.
.TP 8n
EXpression
This substitution evaluates simple arithmetic expressions.
Addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, modulo
and negation are understood.
The 6 basic comparison operators are available.
The usual C syntax and precedence are used.
The arguments must constitute a valid expression,
white space and word boundaries are ignored.
.\" -------------------- F --------------------
.\" -------------------- G --------------------
.\" -------------------- H --------------------
.TP 8n
History_Directory
.br
This substitution takes zero arguments.
It is replaced by the absolute path of the history directory of the
project.
.TP 8n
History_Path
This substitution takes one argument, the name of a source file.  It
is replaced by the absolute path of the history file for that source
file.  Note that you may beed to massage the file name a little for
you proticular history tool, just as the history commands in the
\fIaegis.conf\fP file do.
.br
.br
This substitution takes zero arguments.
It is replaced by the absolute path of the history directory of the
project.
.\" -------------------- I --------------------
.TP 8n
IDentifier
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument.
The value of the substitution will be the argument with
all characters but alpha numerics mapped into an underscore (_),
so as to form a legal C identifier.
.TP 8n
INTegration_Directory
.br
The absolute path of the change's integration directory.
Only available when the change is in the
.I "being integrated"
state.
.TP 8n
INTegrator
.br
The name of the change's integrator.
Only available when the change is in the
.I "being integrated"
state or the
.I "completed"
state.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
.TP 8n
INTegrator_List
.br
Space separated list of the project's integrators.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
.\" -------------------- J --------------------
.\" -------------------- K --------------------
.\" -------------------- L --------------------
.TP 8n
LEFt
This substitution
extracts the left hand side of strings.
It takes two arguments:
the first is the string, the second is the number of characters.
.TP 8n
LENgth
This substitution
determines the length of strings,
the result is a number.
It takes one argument:
the string to be measured.
.TP 8n
LIBrary
.br
The absolute path of Aegis' library directory.
This corresponds to the \[lq]\fI./configure -datadir\fP\[rq] option
when Aegis was built.
This substitution is deprecated \- please use ${datadir} instead.
.TP 8n
LIBrary_DIRectory
.br
The absolute path of Aegis' architecture-specific library directory.
This corresponds to the \[lq]\fI./configure -libdir\fP\[rq] option
when Aegis was built.
.\" -------------------- M --------------------
.\" -------------------- N --------------------
.TP 8n
Name_Maximum
This substitution is used to get the maximum file name length
within a file system.
It takes at least one argument:
the name of a directory within the file system.
Frequently used with ${left} to crop filenames
to the file system maximum.
.\" -------------------- O --------------------
.\" -------------------- P --------------------
.TP 8n
PAth_Reduce
This function requires at least one argument.  It is used to remove
duplicates from a command search path, such as may be found in the PATH
environment variable.  If more than one argument is given, all are
included in the results,
as if they were separated by colons.
.TP 8n
PERL
This function requires zero arguments.
It is replaced by the absolute path of a Perl interpreter.
.br
.TP 8n
PLural
.br
This function requires 2 or 3 arguments.
The first argument is evaluated as a number,
if it is plural (not equal to 1) the second argument is the result,
otherwise the third argument is the result (or empty if not given).
This is mostly used to pluralize sentences in Germainic error messages.
.TP 8n
PLural_Forms
.RS
The \fIplural_forms\fP substitution is similar to the
\fI${plural}\fP substitution, except that it reads and understands the
\f[CW]Plural-Forms:\fP header in the message catalogue.  This means that
it understands a greater range of pluralization mechanisms than the simple
\fI${plural}\fP substitution.
(For a description of the \f[CW]Plural-Forms:\fP header,
see the GNU Gettext manual.)
.PP
The first argument is the number.  Second is the singular form
(corresponding to the \f[CW]Plural-Forms:\fP expression evaluating to
zero), the third and subsequent arguments are the various plural forms
(corresponding to the \f[CW]Plural-Forms:\fP expression evaluating to 1,
2, 3, \fIetc\fP.
.PP
The \f[CW]Plural-Forms:\fP expression is required evaluate to less than
\f[CW]nplurals\fP.  If it does not, the second arguement (the singular
form) is used.  If there are too few arguments to this substitution,
the second argument (the singular form) is again used.
.PP
Note that in the default case (used for English and other Germanic
languages), the arguments are the \fIreverse\fP of those expected by
the \fI${plural}\fP substitution.
.RE
.TP 8n
Project
.RS
This substitution provides various information about the project, based
on the argument it is given.
.TP 8n
name
This returns the name of the project.
(This is the default if no argument is given.)
.TP 8n
description
This returns the description of the project (the one which appears in
the project listing).
.TP 8n
trunk_name
This returns the name of the trunk of the project (i.e. no branch
numbers included).
.TP 8n
trunk_description
This returns the description of the trunk of the project.
.TP 8n
version
This returns the version of the project.
.TP 8n
version_long
This returns the version of the project, including the delta number.
.RE
.TP 8n
Project_Specific
This substitution takes exactly one argument.  This argument is a name
to be found in the project configuration file's \fIproject_\%specific\fP
field (see \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information).
This returns the value listed in the project configuration file.
Unknown attributes will be replaced with the empty string.
.\" -------------------- Q --------------------
.TP 8n
QUote
.br
This substitution may be used to quote shell special characters.  If no
quoting is required, not quotes will be inserted.  This is used to
insulate shell special characters in filenames when forming commands.
.\" -------------------- R --------------------
.TP 8n
Read_File
.br
Read a file and substitute the contents of the file.
Requires exactly one argument, the pathname of the file to be read.
If the pathname is a project source file,
you will need to use the
.I source
substitution to resolve the path.
It is a fatal error if the file does not exist,
or is not readable.
It is a fatal error if the pathname is not absolute
(because the current directory is undefined).
.TP 8n
Read_File_Simple
.br
Read a file and without substituting the contents of the file.
Requires exactly one argument, the pathname of the file to be read.
If the pathname is a project source file,
you will need to use the
.I source
substitution to resolve the path.
It is a fatal error if the file does not exist,
or is not readable.
It is a fatal error if the pathname is not absolute
(because the current directory is undefined).
.TP 8n
Reviewer
.br
The name of the change's reviewer.
Only available when the change is between the
.I "awaiting integration"
state and the
.I "completed"
state.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
.TP 8n
Reviewer_List
.br
Space separated list of the project's reviewers.
Takes an optional argument in the same form as the \fIuser\fP substitution.
Note that this is different than the \f[CW]Change_\%Reviewer_\%List\fP
substitution.
.TP 8n
RIght
This substitution
extracts the right hand side of strings.
It takes two arguments:
the first is the string, the second is the number of characters.
.\" -------------------- S --------------------
.TP 8n
Search_Path
The Search_Path substitution is replaced by a
colon separated list of absolute paths to search when building a
change, it will point from a change to its branch and so on up
to the project trunk.
.TP 8n
Search_Path_Executable
The Search_Path_Executable substitution is usually the same as the
\fPSearch_Path\fP substitution.  However, during an \[lq]aegis \-Test
\-BaseLine\[rq] command, it contains the baseline as the first element,
rather then the development directory or the integration directory.
This is of most use when looking for executables and executable support
files while running tests.
.TP 8n
SHell
.br
The absolute path of a Bourne shell
which understands functions.
Requires exactly zero arguments.
.TP 8n
Source
.br
Resolve the argument filename into a pathname.
It is an error if the file is not a source file.
An optional second argument may be "Absolute" or "Relative",
and may be abbreviated.
Relative will attempt to provide a development-directory-relative pathname
whenever possible,
absolute will always result in an absolute path.
The default is "Relative".
(For the inverse mapping, see \fI${BAse_RElative}\fP, above.)
.TP 8n
SPLit
This substitution may be used to split strings are specified separators.
The first argument is the separator character to be used, subsequent
arguments are strings to be split.  The result is the collection is
split strings of the second a follwoing arguments, separated by spaces.
.TP 8n
STate
.br
The state the current change is in.
It is an error if the substitution does not refer to a change.
.TP 8n
SUBSTitute
.br
Regular expression substitution.  The first argument is the pattern to
match, the second argument is the replacement string.  The third and
subsequent arguments are modified as specified by the first two arguments.
The search is not anchored, and the replacement will happen
as many times as possible.
Use \[lq]^\[rq] to match the beginning, and \[lq]$\[rq] to match the end.
.TP 8n
SUBSTRing
.br
This substitution extracts a substring from the middle of strings.
It takes three arguments: the first is the string, the second is the star
character (counting from zero), the third is the number of characters.
.TP 8n
SWitch
.br
Select amongst a set of values.
The first argument is expected to be a number.
If the number is zero, the second argument is used;
if the number is one, the third argument is used; etc.
If the number is negative, or exceeds the available arguments,
the last argument is used.
.\" -------------------- T --------------------
.TP 8n
Trim_DIRectory
This substitution takes one or two arguments.  If given one argument,
one directory component (if present) is removed from the argument,
which is assumed to be a file name.  If two arguments are present,
the first is a directory count; at most this many directory components
(if present) will be removed.  The base file name is always left.
.TP 8n
Trim_EXTension
This substitution takes one argument.  Any file name extension (a dot
characters and the characters following) will be removed from the final
filename section of the argument.
.\" -------------------- U --------------------
.TP 8n
UNSplit
This substitution may be used to reverse the effects of the \fIsplit\fP
substitution.  The first arguments is a seaparator character, the second
and following arguments are strings to be joined together using the
separator character.  The result is a single string.
.TP 8n
UpCase
.br
This substitution takes at least one argument.
The value of the substitution will be the argument with
any lower case letters mapped to upper case.
.TP 8n
USer
.RS
This substitution provides various information about the user who executed
the command, based on the argument it is given.
.TP 8n
login
The login name of the user.
(This is the default if no argument is given.)
.TP 8n
name
The full name of the user.
.TP 8n
email
The email address of the user.
.TP 8n
quoted_email
The email address of the user, quoted to avoid shell special characters.
.TP 8n
home
The home directory of the user.
.RE
.\" -------------------- V --------------------
.TP 8n
Version
.br
.RS
The version of the change.
If the change is in the
.I "being integrated"
state or the
.I "completed"
state,
the version will be of the form "\fIa\fB.\fIb\fB.D\fIddd\fR",
where "a" is the project's major version number,
"b" is the project's minor version number, and
"ddd" is the change's delta number.
If the change is in any other state,
the version will be of the form "\fIa\fB.\fIb\fB.C\fIccc\fR",
where "ccc" is the change number.
.TP 8n
delta_uuid
This variant gives the change's delta-UUID assigned at integrate pass.
Only valid for \fIbeing_integrated\fP and \fIcompleted\fP changes.
.RE
.\" -------------------- W --------------------
.\" -------------------- X --------------------
.\" -------------------- Y --------------------
.\" -------------------- Z --------------------
.TP 8n
Zero_Pad
This substitution is used to zero pad a string on the left.
It takes two arguments:
the first is the string to be padded, the second is the minimum string width.
.SH DATE
This section describes the format specifiers accepted by the
date substitution.
These are the same specifiers as defined
by the ANSI C standard
for the strftime function.
.TP 8n
%%
The percent character (%)
.TP 8n
%a
the abbreviated weekday name
.TP 8n
%A
the full weekday name
.TP 8n
%b
the abbreviated month name
.TP 8n
%B
the full month name
.TP 8n
%c
the date and time
.TP 8n
%d
the day of the month,
zero padded
.TP 8n
%H
the hour of the 24-hour day
.TP 8n
%I
the hour of the 12-hour day
.TP 8n
%j
the day number of year,
zero padded, one based
.TP 8n
%m
the month of the year,
zero padded, one based
.TP 8n
%M
the minute of the hour,
zero padded
.TP 8n
%p
meridian indicator,
AM or PM as appropriate
.TP 8n
%S
the second of the minute
.TP 8n
%U
the Sunday week of the year
.TP 8n
%w
the day of the week,
Sunday is 0
.TP 8n
%W
the Monday week of the year
.TP 8n
%x
the date,
as \fImmm dd yyyy\fP
.TP 8n
%X
the time,
as \fIhh:mm:ss\fP
.TP 8n
%y
the year of the century
.TP 8n
%Y
the year including the century
.TP 8n
%Z
time zone abbreviation
.PP
Using an undefined format specifier will
produce random results,
depending on the version of UNIX you are on.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fBaesub\fP(1)
Substitute and print strings.
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
