'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2000-2003, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "aetest" 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aetest \- test results file format
.XX "aetest(5)" "test results file format"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The default configuration of the \fItest_\%command\fP and
\fIdevelopment_\%test_\%command\fP commands of the project \fIconfig\fP
file (see \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information) is for the test commands
to test a single test file and a single architecture at a time.  On some
systems, this is not efficient.
.PP
When configured to run multiple simultaneous tests, or multiple
simultaneous architectures, a file of the format described here is used
to communicate the test results back to Aegis.
.SH CONTENTS
Use a separate row for each unique filename and architecture combination.
.TP 8n
test_result = [ { ... } ];
.br
.RS
All the fields are mandatory.
.TP 8n
file_name = string;
.br
This is the name of the file being tested.
Use the same filename as was given to the test command.
.TP 8n
exit_status = integer;
.br
This is the exit status returned by the test.
.TP 8n
architecture = string;
.br
This is the architecture which the test was run on.
Defaults to the architecture of the current system if not set.
(Try to avoid setting this field unless you have a very clever
multi-architecture test system.)
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aet (1)
run tests
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.TP 8n
\fIaepconf\fP(5)
Project configuration file format.
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
