'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1996, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2004-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH aeuconf 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aeuconf - user configuration file
.XX "aeuconf(5)" "user configuration file format"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI$AEGIS_FLAGS\fR
.br
\fI$HOME\f(CW/.aegisrc\fR
.br
\fI\*(D)/aegisrc\fR
.br
\fI\*(L)/aegisrc\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user configuration file
is used to hold user defaults.
This file is created and edited by the user.
This file is only ever read by \*(n), it is never written.
.PP
The sources of user preferences are scanned in the order given above.
Earlier sources have higher priority.
.SS AEGIS_FLAGS
This environment variable has the same format.
It is read first, and over-rides the
.I \&.\*(n)rc
file contents.
This is intended to be used within the tests distributed with aegis,
but can also be of use within some shell scripts.
It contains session specific preferences.
.SS \fI$HOME\f(CW/.aegisrc\fR
This file contains user specific preferences.
.SS \fI\*(D)/aegisrc\fR
This file contains architecture-neutral preferences.
.SS \fI\*(L)/aegisrc\fR
This file contains architecture-specific preferences.
.SH CONTENTS
The file contains the following fields:
.TP 8n
default_development_directory = string;
.br
The pathname of where to place new development directories.
The pathname may be relative,
in which case it is relative to \fI$HOME\fP.
The default is the field of the same name in the project attributes,
or \fI$HOME\fP neither is set.
.TP 8n
default_project_directory = string;
.br
The pathname of where to place new project directories.
The pathname may be relative.
If this path is relative,
it is relative to \fI$HOME\fP.
The default is \fI$HOME\fP.
.TP 8n
delete_file_preference = (no_keep, interactive, keep);
.br
All of the commands which delete files will
consult this field to determine if the file should be deleted.
Defaults to
.I no_keep
if not set.
.TP 8n
default_project_name = string;
.br
The name of a project.
.TP 8n
default_change_number = integer;
.br
The number of a change.
.PP
Please note that the
.I default_project_name
field and the
.I default_change_number
field
are unrelated.
Specifying both does not mean that single change within that single project,
they have nothing to do with each other.
.TP 8n
diff_preference = (automatic_merge, no_merge, only_merge);
.RS
The
.IR aed(1)
command will consult this field to determine what to do:
.TP 8n
.B no_merge
means only diff the files,
even if some have out of date versions.
.TP 8n
.B only_merge
means merge those files with out of date versions,
and do not do anything else,
even if they need to be diffed.
.TP 8n
.B automatic_merge
means to do
.I only_merge
if any source files require merging,
otherwise do
.IR no_merge .
It never combines merges and differences in the same pass.
.PP
The corresponding command line options to the
.IR aed (1)
command take precedence,
this field is only consulted if you do not give
a corresponding command line argument.
Defaults to
.I automatic_merge
if not set.
.RE
.TP 8n
pager_preference = (foreground, never);
.RS
This field is consulted for listings and help.
The standard output is only piped to a pager if the command is run in the
foreground and the standard output is directed at a terminal.
.TP 8n
foreground
The standard output will be piped through the command given in the
\f(CWPAGER\fP environment variable (or \fImore\fP if not set).
.TP 8n
never
The standard output will not be redirected.
.PP
This field defaults to \fIforeground\fP if not set.
.RE
.TP 8n
persevere_preference = (all, stop);
.RS
This field is consulted by the
.IR aet (1)
command,
to determine if it should run all tests,
or stop after the first failure.
This field defaults to \fIall\fP if not set.
.RE
.TP 8n
log_file_preference = (snuggle, append, replace, never);
.RS
This field controls the behavior of the log file.  It usually defaults
to \fIsnuggle\fP if not set, although some commands may default it to
\fIappend\fP.  When the log file is in use, the output continues to be
sent to the screen if the process is in the foreground and the standard
output is a terminal.
.TP 8n
never
Do not redirect the output to a log file.
.TP 8n
replace
Replace any log file that is present,
create a new one if none already exists.
.TP 8n
append
Append the log to the end of any existing log file,
create a new one if none already exists.
.TP 8n
snuggle
Append the log to the end of any existing log file if that log file was
last modified less than 30 seconds ago, otherwise replace any existing
log file; create a new one if none already exists.  This option allows
runs of aegis commands to produce a meaningful log file.
.RE
.TP 8n
lock_wait_preference = (always, background, never);
.RS
This field is consulted by all commands which wait for locks.
.TP 8n
always
The \[lq]always\[rq] setting says that all commands should always wait
for locks.  This is the default.
.TP 8n
background
The \[lq]background\[rq] setting says that background commands should
always wait for locks, and foreground commands will not.
.TP 8n
never
The \[lq]never\[rq] setting says that no command should ever wait
for locks.  If the command would wait, it will exit with status 1.
.PP
This user preference can be over-ridden by the
.B \-wait
and
.B \-nowait
command line options.
.RE
.TP 8n
symbolic_link_preference = (verify, assume);
.RS
This field is consulted by
.IR aeb (1)
when the project configuration file specifies
.I create_symbolic_links_before_build
as true.
The verification of the links can
be quite time consuming; if you are confident that they are already
correct (say, from a recent build run) you may wish to assume they
are correct and not verify them repeatedly.
.TP 8n
verify
This setting says to always verify the symbolic links
to the baseline.  This is the default.
.TP 8n
assume
This setting says to always assume the links are correct,
unless there has been a recent integration.
.PP
This user preference can be over-ridden by the
.B -Verify_Symbolic_Links
and
.B -Assume_Symbolic_Links
command line options.
.RE
.TP 8n
relative_filename_preference = (current, base);
.RS
This field is consulted by most commands which accept filenames on the
command line.  It controls whether relative filenames are relative to
the current directory (this is the default), or relative to the base
of the project source tree.
.TP 8n
current
This setting says to interpret relative filenames against
the current directory.
.TP 8n
base
This setting says to interpret relative filenames against
the base of the source tree.
.PP
This user preference can be over-ridden by the
.B -BAse_RElative
and
.B -CUrrent_RElative
command line options.
.RE
.TP 8n
email_address = string;
.RS
This field may be used to set the preferred email address.
If not set,
defaults to
\&\f[CW]`whoami`@`cat /etc/mailname`\fP if not set, and if
\fI/etc/mailname\fP exists.
Otherwise, defaults to
\&\f[CW]`whoami`@`hostname`\fP if not set, which is usually not what is
required, particularly if you are behind a firewall.
.RE
.TP 8n
whiteout_preference = (always, never);
All of the commands which cause a change to remove files will consult
this field to determine if the file should be have a dummy \[lq]whiteout\[rq]
file put in the development directory.  Defaults to \[lq]always\[rq]
if not set.
.TP 8n
editor_command = string;
This command is used to edit a file,
if the editing is being done in the background.
Defaults to the EDITOR environment variable if not set,
or \[lq]ed\[rq] if not set.
.TP 8n
visual_command = string;
This command is used to edit a file,
if the editing is being done in the foreground.
Defaults to the VISUAL environment variable if not set,
or to the EDITOR environment variable if not set,
or \[lq]vi\[rq] if not set.
.TP 8n
pager_command = string;
This is the command used to paginate report and listing output.
Defaults to the PAGER environment variable if not set,
or to \[lq]more\[rq] if not set.
.TP 8n
attribute = [ { ... } ];
.RS
This is a list of \fI(name,value)\fP pairs, defining user specified attributes.
.TP 8n
name = string;
.RS
The name of the attribute.
By convention, names which start with an upper-case letter will appear
in listings, and lower-case will not.
Attribute names are case-insensitive.
.PP
Arguably, most user attributes which may be altered by the user (and
some that can't) should be of this form.  Due to an accident of history,
this is not the case.
.PP
The attributes known to Aegis are:
.TP 8n
progress-preference
boolean; true if \f[I]aet\fP(1) should emit progress messages, false if
not.  Can be overridden with the \fB\-progress\fP and \fB-no-progress\fP
command line options.
.PP
FIXME: there needs to be a \f[I]aesub\fP(5) way to get at these values.
.RE
.TP 8n
value = string;
The value of the attribute.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.TP 8n
.IR aed (1)
difference and merge files
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
