'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1995, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.so libdir.so
.TH aeustate 5 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aeustate \- user state file
.XX "aeustate(5)" "user state file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f(CW\*(S)/user/\fP\fIuser-name\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
A user state file
is used to store information about a user.
These file are created and maintained by \*(n).
These file should not be edited by humans.
.SH CONTENTS
.TP 8n
own = [{ ... }];
This field is a list of change the user is currently working on,
within project.
The changes are in either the
.I being_developed
or
.I being_integrated
state.
The structure of this field is as follows:
.RS
.TP 8n
project = string;
The name of a project.
.TP 8n
change = [integer];
The changes this user is working on in the project.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aegis (5)
\*(n) file format syntax
.so ../man1/z_cr.so
