'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2004 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual page describing the lib/en/man/ae-cvs-ci command.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) ae-cvs-ci
.TH "ae-cvs-ci" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
ae-cvs-ci \- checkin a change set to CVS
.XX "ae-cvs-ci(1)" "checkin a change set to CVS"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.I project-name
.I change-number
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to check an Aegis change set into CVS.
This is usually used in the \fIintegrate pass notify command\fP project
attribute, as in
.RS
integrate_pass_notify_command =
    "$bin/ae-cvs-ci $project $change";
.RE
.LP
Alternatively, you may wish to taylor this script to the individual
needs of your project.  Make it a source file, e.g. \fIetc/ae-cvs-ci.sh\fP
and the use the following:
.RS
integrate_pass_notify_command =
    "$sh ${source etc/ae-cvs-ci abs} $project $change";
.RE
.LP
It is assumed that your CVSROOT and CVS_RSH environment variables have
already been set appropriately, or you could set them in the command.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
