'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) ae-repo-ci
.TH "ae-repo-ci" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
ae-repo-ci \- redundant repository checkin
.XX "ae-repo-ci(1)" "redundant repository checkin"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
\fB\-Project\fP \fIname\fP
\fB\-Change\fP \fInumber\fP
\fB\-REPOsitory\fP \fItype\fP
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to redundantly commit an Aegis change
set into a parallel repository.
.SS Integrate Pass Notify Command
The intended use for the \*(n) command is as an
\fIintegrate_\%pass_\%notify_\%command\fP (see \fIaepa\fP(1) for more
information) to do a redundant checkin of a change set into a second
parallel repository.
.PP
For example, if you were using CVS, the project attribute would look
something like this:
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
integrate_pass_notify_command =
    "$bin/ae-repo-ci -repo cvs "
    " -p $project -c $change";
.FT R
.fi
.RE
You may also need to specify the module, if the module name is not the
same as the project name.
.SS Commit Messages
You are able to control the commit message, by using
the \f[CW]ae-repo-ci:commit-message\fP sttribute in the
\fIproject_specific\fP field of the project configuration file.
.PP
The default is as if the following entry were present:
.RS
project_specific =
[
    {
        name = "ae-repo-ci:commit-message";
        value = "$version - ${change brief_description}";
    }
];
.RE
All of the \fIaesub\fP(5) substitutions are available.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_dir.so
.so o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-List\fP
This option may be used to obtain a list of supported repository types.
.TP 8n
\fB\-MODule\fP \fIname\fP
This option may be used to specify which module is to be checked out.
If not set, it defaults to the trunk project name (\fIi.e.\fP the
project name without any branch or version numbers).
.so o_project.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-REPOsitory\fP \fItype\fP
.RS
This option is used to specify the repository type for the checkin.
Known repository types are:
.TP 8n
cvs
Concurrent version System.
You will need to set the CVSROOT environment variable appropriately,
and the \fB\-modue\fP option will be relative to it.
.TP 8n
svn
.RS
Subversion.
You must specify the complete URL with the \fB\-module\fP option.
.PP
The following field in the \f[CW]project_specific\fP field of the
project configuration file (see \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information)
are relevant:
.TP 8n
svn:username
If present, the \f[CW]--username\fP command line option will be added to
\fIsvn\fP(1) command lines, with this value.
.TP
svn:password 8n
If present, the \f[CW]--username\fP command line option will be added to
\fIsvn\fP(1) command lines, with this value.
.PP
These options can help when you can't convince Subversion to use the
correct athorization any other way.
.RE
.PP
This option must be specified, there is no default.
The \fB\-list\fP option may be used to obtain an up-to-date list of
supported repository types.
.RE
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIaeca\fP(1)
how to change project attributes
.so z_cr.so
