'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2002-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aeannotate
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aeannotate \- annotated source file listing
.XX "aeannotate(1)" "annotated source file listing"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -List
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to
produce an annotated listing of the named source file.
.PP
The columns specified by the user (see the \fB\--column\fP option, below)
are used of the left hand side of the output.  Two additional columns
are always added: the line number and the source code.
.PP
If no columns are specified, the default columns are
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l l l.
\-column;'${change date %Y-%m}';Date;7
\-column;'$version';Version;9
\-column;'${change developer}';Who;8
.TE
The \fI$version\fP string always contains enough information to reproduce
the entire project baseline at the time of the delta.  The first portion
is the project branch, and the second portion (following the `D') is
the delta number; use these to form the -branch and -delta options for
an \fIaecp\fP(1) command.
.PP
At the end of the listing, accumulated statistics are presented,
correlated to the unique columns values see in the listing.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
.B \-COLumn \fIformula \fP [ \fIheading\fP ][ \fIwidth\fP ]
This option may be used to
specify columns you wish to see in the output.
The formula is in the for of an \fIaesub\fP(5) string.
The heading is a string to be used as the column heading;
defaults to the formula if not specified.
The width is the width of the columns;
defaults to 7 if not specified.
.TP 8n
.B \-File_Statistics
This option causes file statistics to be appended.  This lists the number
of lines in the file were changed at the same time as another file.
For example, this allows you to see tests associated with source files,
and \fIvice versa\fP.
.so o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Diff_Option\fP \fIstring\fP
This option may be used to pass addition arguments to the diff commands
that is run between each delta of the file.  Use with caution: poor
choice of options can render aeannotate inoperable, or yield meaningless
results.  Probably the best use of this option is to pass the \fB\-b\fP
option, to ignore white space changes, because this ignores the vast
majority of cosmetic formatting changes, showing you the content changes
instead.  The \fB\-i\fP option, to ignore case, can also be useful for
case-insensitive languages.
.so o_output.so
.so o_project.so
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.SH EXAMPLES
If you wanted to list only the year against the lines of the file,
use this column specification:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l l l.
\-column;'${change date %Y}';Year;4
.TE
.PP
If you wanted to list the developer and the reviewer against the lines
of the file (commonly called a \[lq]blame\[rq] listing) use this column
specification:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l l l.
\-column;'${change developer}';Develop.;8
\-column;'${change reviewer}';Reviewer;8
.TE
.PP
If you wanted to see the change cause of each line,
use this column specification:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l l l.
\-column;'$version';Version;9
\-column;'${change cause}';Cause;20
.TE
.PP
All of the \fIaesub\fP(5) substitutions are available, however
only the \fI${change ...}\fP variants are particularly useful.
.PP
To see only content changes, and ignore changes in indentation (assuming
you are using GNU diff), use this command:
.RS
aeannotate -diff-opt -b \fIfilename\fP
.RE
.so z_cr.so
