'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aebuffy
.TH \*(n) 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- watch for changes
.XX "aebuffy(1)" "watch for changes"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.I project-name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to
watch for changes which the current user may be able to act upon.
These include changes being developed by the user, and changes which
could be reviewed or integrated by the user.
.PP
If you don't use the \fIproject-name\fP command line option,
you need to set the AEGIS_PROJECT environment variable, or the
default_project field of the \fI\&.aegisrc\fP file before you invoke
this command.  This is especially important if you launch it from your
X11 session start-up file.
.PP
Double clicking on a change will invoke the \fItkaer\fP(1) command
for that change.  This does not work for changes in the \fIawaiting
development\fP and \fIcompleted\fP states, but works for all other states.
.PP
Use the \[lq]q\[rq] key to quit.
.PP
At the moment it can only watch one project.
If you are good at Tcl/Tk, improvements
are most welcome.
.so z_cr.so
