'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1996, 1999, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Change_Directory" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis change directory \- change directory
.XX "aecd(1)" "change directory"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Change_Directory
[
.IR option ...
][
.I relative\[hy]path
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Change_Directory
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Change_Directory
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Change_Directory
command is used to
obtain a path to change directory to.
If the
.I relative\[hy]path
is supplied, this will be added to the output.
.PP
This command is usually used to calculate an argument for
.IR cd (1),
however it can also be used to obtain an absolute path
for change and project files.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_baselin.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_branch.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_devdir.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_trunk.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aecd 'cd `\*(n) \-cd \e!* \-v`'
sh$     aecd(){cd `\*(n) \-cd "$@" \-v`}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the specified change is not in a state where it has a directory to
change to.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerfail (1)
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
