'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1994, 1998, 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Change_Owner" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Change_Owner \- set change owner
.XX "aechown(1)" "set change owner"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Change_Owner
.I change-number
.I user-name
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Change_Owner
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Change_Owner
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) -Change_Owner"
command is used to
reassign a change from one developer to another.
.PP
A new development directory is created for the change in the
new developers default area (see
.IR aedb (1)
for more information)
and the change files are copied across.
Derived files are ignored,
so a new build will be required.
The old development directory will be deleted.
.PP
This command must be performed by a project administrator,
and the new assignee must be a developer.
.PP
Warning:
capricious use of this command will alienate developers very rapidly.
.SS Notification
This command mimics many of the actions of the \fIaebdu\fP(1)
and \fIaedb\fP(1) command.  In particular, it invokes the
\fIdevelop_\%begin_\%undo_\%command\fP and \fIdevelop_\%begin_\%command\fP
of the project \fIconfig\fP file.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more
information.
.SS Development Directory Location
.so z_filelocn.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_dir.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_reason2.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_user.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aechown '\*(n) -chown \e!* -v'
sh$	aechown(){\*(n) -chown "$@" -v}
.fi
.br
.ne 1i
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the user issuing the command is not a project administrator.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the user given is not a developer.
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
