'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2002-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-CLEan" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis clEan \- clean files from development directory
.XX "aeclean(1)" "clean files from development directory"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-CLEan
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-CLEan
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-CLEan"
command is used to remove all files which are not change source files
from a development directory.  This can be used to obtain a \[lq]clean\[rq]
development directory before a final build, to ensure that a change is
ready to end development.
A new build will be required.
.PP
This command is only allowed in the \[lq]\fIbeing developed\fP\[rq] state,
and only the change's developer may issue it.  It may not be applied
to branches.
.PP
All symbolic links will be removed from the development directory,
even if \fIremove_\%symlinks_\%after_\%build = false\fP in the
project \fIconfig\fP file.  The symbolic links will be re\[hy]installed,
if \fIcreate_\%symlinks_\%before_\%build = true\fP.  This is to ensure
that the symlinks are accurate, and that unnecessary ones are removed.
.PP
All special device files, pipes and sockets will be removed.  These files
cannot be source files, and it is expected that the following build will
restore them.
.PP
All derived files created by previous builds of the change will be
removed.  It is expected that the following build will recreate them.
Any temporary files you may have created in the development directory
will also be removed.
.PP
The
.I develop_begin_command
in the project configuration file
(see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information) will be run, if there is one.
The
.I change_file_command
will be run, if there is one.
The
.I project_file_command
will be run, if there is one.
.PP
You will be warned if any of the files are out\[hy]of\[hy]date and need
to be merged.
You will be warned if any files need to be differenced.
.so lib/en/man1/o_symlnk.so
.SS Notification
The notification commands that would be run by the \fIaecp\fP(1),
\fIaedb\fP(1), \fIaenf\fP(1), \fIaent\fP(1) and \fIaerm\fP(1) commands
are run, as appropriate.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run,
if set.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.TP 8n
.B \-TOuch
This option may be used to request that each change source file have its
last\[hy]modified time\[hy]stamp be updated to the current time.
This is the default.
Derived files and other non\[hy]source file are left alone.
.TP 8n
.B \-No_TOuch
This option may be used to request that the last\[hy]modified time\[hy]stamp of
each source file be left unmodified.
.TP 8n
.B \-MINIMum
.RS
This option may be used to request a minimum set of symbolic links,
when the \fIcreate_symlinks_to_baseline\fP functions are being used.
This is useful if you want to simulate something like \fIaeib \-minimum\fP
in the development directory.  This option is not meaningful if symbolic
links are not being used.
.PP
This option also says not to remove normal files which occlude project
source files.  This is a common technique used to temporarily over\[hy]ride
project source files.  The \[lq]\fIaecp \-read\[hy]only\[rq] command would have
been more appropriate.
.RE
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
