'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2000, 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aecomp
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- compare two changes
.XX "aecomp(1)" "compare two changes"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aecomp
.I number
[
.I number
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
script is used to compare two changes, using \fItkdiff\fP(1) to display
the changes.  If you give one change on the command line, the other
change is determined in the usual way.  If you give two changes, those
are the two compared.  Both changes must be in the \fIbeing developed\fP
state (it's only a script, after all).
.PP
Basically, \*(n) allows you to specify two project/change pairs (ie the
compared changes don't have to be in the same branch or project).  \*(n)
attempts to use defaults (for project and change number) where possible.
As a minimum, it needs a single change number as an option. A list
of files which are common between the two changes is constructed and
presented.  Double clicking on any of the file names will \fItkdiff\fP
the two versions (ie the files in each change).
.PP
It is useful after you have used \fIaeclone\fP(1), then modified a change
and subsequently are wondering what on earth you did.  Files are considered
to be "common" if they have the same name.  In the case of a file which
has been moved, it's original filename is used (the diff of course takes
place against the new file name).
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Finneran <scottf@lucent.com>
