'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -CoPy_file_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -CoPy_file_Undo \- reverse action of aecp
.XX "aecpu(1)" "reverse action of aecp"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
[
.IR option ...
]
.IR filename ...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -CoPy_file_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -CoPy_file_Undo
command is used to
delete files previously copied into a change.
The named files will be removed from the list of files in the change.
.PP
The file is deleted from the development directory
unless the
.B -Keep
option is specified.
The
.B -Keep
option should be used with great care,
as you can confuse tools such as
.IR make (1)
by leaving these files in place.
.PP
You may name a directory to delete from the change all files
in that directory tree previously copied into the change,
other files in the tree will be ignored.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.SS Branch \fIvs\fP Change
The \fIaecpu\fP(1) command may only be applied to a change.  If you
wish to perform the same operation on a branch, use the \fIaemt\fP(1)
command, through the agency of a change.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
If the project
configuration
file was deleted,
any diff registration will also be canceled.
.PP
The difference file (\f(CW,D\fP) will also be removed,
however any DMT derived files
(e.g a \f(CW.o\fP file from a \f(CW.c\fP file)
will not be removed.
This is because \*(n) is decoupled from the DMT,
and cannot know what these derived file may be called.
You may need to delete derived files manually.
.SS Notification
The \fIcopy_file_undo_command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file is
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Read_Only\fP
This option may be used to specify that only insulation files are to
be uncopied.  If you specify \fB\-UNChanged\fP as well, only unchanged
insulation files will be uncopied.
.so o_terse.so
.so o_symlnk_vfy.so
.TP 8n
.B \-UNChanged
.br
Examine the named files to see if they are unchanged.
Only remove the unchanged files from the change,
and leave the files which have changed.
If no files are named on the command line
all change files are checked.
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aecpu '\*(n) -cpu \e!* -v'
sh$	aecpu(){\*(n) -cpu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemt (1)
make branch files transparent
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
