'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1999, 2002, 2004-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-DIFFerence" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis difference \- find differences between a change and the baseline
.XX "aed(1)" "difference a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-DIFFerence
[
.IR filename ...
]
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-DIFFerence
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-DIFFerence
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-DIFFerence
command is used to
generate difference listings between source files in the
the development directory and the baseline.
The purpose is to enable reviewers to find each and every edit
performed on the source files.
The difference listings will be placed into files
named for the sources files but
with an additional "\f(CW,D\fP" suffix.
.PP
The command used to perform the differences is specified in the
.I diff_command
field of the project
configuration
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information).
.PP
It is possible to configure a project to omit the diff step as
unnecessary, by the following setting:
.RS
diff_command = "exit 0";
.RE
This disables all generation, checking and validation of difference file
for each change source file.  The merge functions of the \fIaediff\fP(1)
command are unaffected by this setting.
.PP
Please note that the \fIhistory_\%content_\%limitation\fP field
of the project configuration file does \fBnot\fP apply to the
\fIdiff_\%command\fP field.
.PP
If no files are named on the command line,
all files in the change will be differenced.
.PP
You may name a directory on the command line,
and all files in the change in that directory tree will be differenced.
.so lib/en/man1/z_intuit.so
.SS Notification
The actions of the command are controlled by the \fIdiff_\%command\fP
and \fImerge_\%command\fP fields of the project \fIconfig\fP
file.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.so lib/en/man1/z_bl_lock.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_promotion.so
.SH CONFLICT RESOLUTION
If the version of a file in the change is not the same
as the version of the file in the baseline,
it is out\[hy]of\[hy]date;
some other change has altered the file while this change was
being developed.
.PP
When a difference is requested for an out\[hy]of\[hy]date file,
a merge is performed
between the common ancestor,
the version in the baseline,
and the version in the development directory.
The command used to perform the merge is specified by the
.I merge_command
field of the project
configuration
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information).
.PP
Please note that the \fIhistory_\%content_\%limitation\fP field
of the project configuration file does \fBnot\fP apply to the
\fImerge\%_command\fP field.
.PP
After the merge is performed
the version of the file will be changed to be the current version,
marking the file as up to date,
and a new build will be required.
.PP
The original file in your development directory is preserved with an
"\f[CW],B\fP" suffix (B for backup).  The source file contains the
result of the merge.  You should edit the source files, to make sure the
automatic merge has produced sensible results.
.PP
This merge process works most of the time.
Usually two changes to two logically separate areas of functionality
will alter two logically separate parts of any files they may
have in common.
There are pathological cases where this merge process is spectacularly
useless,
but these are surprisingly rare in practice.
.PP
If you don't want the automatic merge results, simply use the
\fImv\fP(1) command to restore the contents from the "\f[CW],B\fP" file.
.PP
If any merges are required no differences will be performed.
An error message and a non\[hy]zero exit status will also result.
This is to ensure that developers notice that merges have been done,
and that they reconcile the sources and the merged \fI,D\fP files
before the next difference.
See the
.B \-No_Merge
and
.B \-Only_Merge
options, below,
for exact control of when merging is performed.
.so lib/en/man1/o_clone_merg.so
.SH INTEGRATION
During integration, it is also necessary to difference a change.
This provides the difference between the branch and its parent, for
when development on a branch is completed and it is to be reviewed.
The baseline of a branch is the development directory of the composite
change it represents.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_anticip.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_branch.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_trunk.so
.TP 8n
.B \-No_Merge
.br
This option is used to
cause only file differences to be generated,
even when file versions are out\[hy]of\[hy]date.
If not set, the default is to use the
.I diff_preference
field of the
.IR aeuconf (5)
file.
.TP 8n
.B \-Only_Merge
.br
This option is used to
cause only file merges to be performed
on files with out\[hy]of\[hy]date versions.
Other source files are ignored.
If not set, the default is to use the
.I diff_preference
field of the
.IR aeuconf (5)
file.
.TP 8n
.B \-Automatic_Merge
.br
This option is used to
perform
.I \-Only_Merge
if any source files have out\[hy]of\[hy]date versions,
otherwise
.I \-No_Merge is performed.
Only merges or differences will be performed,
it will never use a mixture.
If not set, the default is to use the
.I diff_preference
field of the
.IR aeuconf (5)
file.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aed '\*(n) \-diff \e!* \-v'
sh$     aed(){\*(n) \-diff "$@" \-v}
.fi
For user's convenience,
particularly when they have selected the \[lq]no merge\[rq] preference,
there is also a merge alias:
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aem '\*(n) \-diff \-only_merge \e!* \-v'
sh$     aem(){\*(n) \-diff \-only_merge $* \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
or
.I "being integrated"
states.
.br
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build also takes a baseline read lock (non\[hy]exclusive)
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy file also takes a baseline read lock (non\[hy]exclusive)
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeipass (1)
integrate pass takes a baseline write lock (exclusive)
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
