'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Develop_Begin" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis develop begin \- begin development of a change
.XX "aedb(1)" "begin development of a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin
.I change\[hy]number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Develop_Begin
command is used to
commence development of a change.
.PP
The development directory for the change will be created automatically;
below the directory specified in the default_\%development_\%directory
field of
.IR aeuconf (5),
or if not set
below the directory specified in the default_\%development_\%directory
field of
.IR aepattr (5),
or if not set
below the current user's home directory.
It is rare to need to know the exact pathname of the
development directory,
as the
.IR aecd (1)
command can take you there at any time.
.PP
Successful execution of this command will move the
specified change from the
.I "awaiting development"
state to the
.I "being developed"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS c
boxwid = 1
down
S1: box "awaiting" "development"
arrow " develop" ljust " begin" ljust
S2: box "being" "developed"
move to S2.w
T1: spline -> left 0.75 then up 1 then to S1.w
" develop" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T1.c - (0.75,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Notification
The
.I develop_begin_command
in the project configuration file
(see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information) will be run, if specified.  This is run after the
aegis locks are released, so additional aegis commands may be run from
here, if used with care.  The symbolic links (see below) have \fInot\fP
yet been created.
.SS Development Directory Location
.so lib/en/man1/z_filelocn.so
.SH ADMINISTRATOR OVERRIDE
It is possible for project administrators to use the
.B \-User
option to force a developer to start developing a change.
Some sites prefer to work this way.
Note that developers still have the ability to use the
.IR aedbu (1)
command.
.PP
Warning:
capricious use of this command will rapidly alienate developers.
The defaulting rules, particularly for the change number,
depend on \*(n) and the developer agreeing on
what the developer is currently working on.
.PP
The
.I forced_\%develop_\%begin_\%notify_\%command
project attribute (see
.IR aepattr (5)
for more information)
will be run when an administrator uses the
.B \-User
option,
in an attempt to minimize the surprises for developers.
A suitable command is
.RS
.nf
\f(CWforced_develop_begin_notify_command =
    "$datadir/db_forced.sh $p $c $developer";\fP
.fi
.RE
This command will send e\[hy]mail to the developer,
informing her that the change has been assigned to her.
.so lib/en/man1/o_symlnk.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_dir.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_user.so
This option may only be used by a project administrator.
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aedb '\*(n) \-db \e!* \-v'
sh$     aedb(){\*(n) \-db "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change does not exist.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting development"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not a developer of the specified project.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build a change
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aed (1)
find differences between a change and the baseline
.TP 8n
.IR aedbu (1)
undo the effects of aedb
.TP 8n
.IR aede (1)
complete development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemv (1)
rename a file as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
add a new change to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aend (1)
add a new developer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add new files to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aent (1)
add a new test to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aepa (1)
modify the attributes of a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aet (1)
run tests
.TP 8n
.IR aepattr (5)
project attributes file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
