'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1998, 2001, 2002, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Develop_Begin_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis  develop begin undo \- undo the effects of aedb
.XX "aedbu(1)" "undo the effects of aedb"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin_Undo
.I change\[hy]number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin_Undo
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Develop_Begin_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Develop_Begin_Undo
command is used to
reverse the effects of the '\*(n) \-Develop_Begin' command.
The development directory is discarded,
even if the change has files associated with it,
and even if the development directory is not empty;
all files in the development directory will be lost.
The change is returned to the
.I "awaiting development"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS c
boxwid = 1
down
S1: box "awaiting" "development"
arrow " develop" ljust " begin" ljust
S2: box "being" "developed"
move to S2.w
T1: spline -> left 0.75 then up 1 then to S1.w
" develop" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T1.c - (0.75,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Notification
The \fIdevelop_begin_undo_command\fP field of the project \fIconfig\fP
file is run, if set.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_interact.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_keep.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-New\[hy]Change\[hy]Undo\fP
By using this option it is possible to end developemnt of the change,
and remove the change, all in the one command.  The executing user must
have both created the change and be the devloper of the change, or must
be a project administrator.
(Order is important here, this option mast appear on the command line
\f[I]after\fP the \fB\-Develop\[hy]Begin\[hy]Undo\fP option.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-User\fP \fIname\fP
.br
Ignored for backwards compatibility.
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aedbu '\*(n) \-dbu \e!* \-v'
sh$     aedbu(){\*(n) \-dbu "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is no assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
