'\" tp
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Develop_End_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Develop_End_Undo \- recall a change for further development
.XX "aedeu(1)" "recall a change for further development"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.I change-number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Develop_End_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Develop_End_Undo
command is used to
recall a change for further development.
.PP
Successful execution of this command returns the change
to the
.I "being developed"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S2: box "being" "developed"
arrow " develop" ljust " end" ljust
S3: box "awaiting" "review"
arrow " review" ljust " begin" ljust
S4: box "being" "reviewed"
arrow " review" ljust " pass" ljust
S5: box "awaiting" "integration"
T3: spline -> from S3.w then left 0.50 then up 1 \
	then to S2.w
T4: spline -> from S4.w then left 0.75 then up 2 \
	then to S2.w
T5: spline -> from S5.w then left 1.00 then up 3 \
	then to S2.w
"develop end " rjust "undo " rjust at S2.w
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PP
The files are changed back to being owned by the current user,
and cease to be read-only.
.SS Notification
On successful completion of the command, the
\fIdevelop_\%end_\%undo_\%notify_\%command\fP field of the project
attributes file is run, if set.  See \fIaepa\fP(1) and \fIaepattr\fP(5)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_reason2.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aedeu '\*(n) -deu \e!* -v'
sh$	aedeu(){\*(n) -deu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in one of
the
.I "awaiting review"
or
.I "being reviewed"
or
.I "awaiting integration"
states.
.LP
If is an error if
the project has been configured to use the \fIawaiting review\fP
state, and the change is currently in the \fIbeing reviewed\fP state.
This is because the change currently belongs to the reviewer.
.\" If the project does not use the \fIawaiting review\fP state (the
.\" default is for \fIaede\fP(1) to pass changes straight to the \fIbeing
.\" reviewed\fP state) the most recent developer \fImay\fP undo the
.\" develop end.
.LP
It is an error if
the change was not developed by the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aede 1
complete development of a change
.TP
.IR aerpass 1
pass review of a change
.TP
.IR aerfail 1
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
