'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2001-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\" Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Walter Franzini
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so etc/version.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aedist
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aedist \- remotely distribute a change
.XX "aedist(1)" "remotely distribute a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Send
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Receive
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-REPlay
[
.IR option \&...
] \-f \fIURL\fP
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-MIssing
[
.IR option \&...
] \-f \fIURL\fP
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-PENding
[
.IR option \&...
] \-f \fIURL\fP
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Inventory
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-ARChive
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-List
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to send and receive change sets to facilitate geographically
distributed development.  The expected transport mechanism is e\[hy]mail,
however other mechanisms are equally possible.
.PP
The basic function is to reproduce a change, so a command like
.RS
\f(CWaedist \-send | aedist \-receive\fP
.RE
may be used to clone a change, though less efficiently than \fIaeclone\fP(1).
The file format used is designed to withstand mail servers,
so activities such as
.RS
\f(CWaedist \-send | \fIe\[hy]mail\f(CW | aedist \-receive\fR
.RE
(where \fIe\[hy]mail\fP represents sending, transporting and receiving
your e\[hy]mail)
will reproduce the change on a remote system.
With suitable tools (such as PGP) is it possible to
.RS
\f(CWaedist \-send | encrypt | \fIe\[hy]mail\f(CW | decrypt |
aedist \-receive\fR
.RE
The mechanism is also designed to allow web\[hy]based distribution such as
.RS
\f(CWaedist \-send | \fIweb\[hy]server \(-> web\[hy]browser\f(CW |
aedist \-receive\fR
.RE
by the use of appropriate CGI scripts and mailcap entries.
.PP
It is possible to support both a \[lq]push\[rq] model and a \[lq]pull\[rq] model
using this command.  For suggestions and ideas for various ways to do
this, see the Aegis Users Guide.
.SH SEND
The send variant takes a specified change, or baseline, and constructs
a distribution package containing all of the change attributes and source
file attributes and source file contents.  The result is compressed,
and encoded into a text format which can be sent as e\[hy]mail without being
corrupted by the mail transfer agents along the way.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the send variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-BaseLine\fP
This option may be used to specify the source of a project,
rather than a change.
Implies the \fI\-Entire_Source\fP option, unless over\[hy]ridden.
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_compatibil.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_compress.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_cte.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_delta.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Description_Header\fP
This option may be used to add an RFC 822 style header to the change
description being sent, with a From and Date line.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_Description_Header\fP
This option suppresses the description header.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Entire_Source\fP
This option may be used to send the entire source of the project,
as well as the change source files.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_UUID\fP
This option may be used to ignore the UUID, if present, of the
outgoing change set.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_Ignore_UUID\fP
This option forces the \fIaedist\fP command to use the outgoing change
set's UUID information.  This is the default (unless the compatibility
option will to avoid attributes).
.so lib/en/man1/o_mime_heade.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Partial_Source\fP
This option may be used to send only source files of a change.
This is the default, except for the \fI\-BaseLine\fP option.
.so lib/en/man1/o_output.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-PATch\fP
This option is deprecated.
Please use the \fB\-COMPATibility\fP option instead.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_PATch\fP
This option is deprecated.
Please use the \fB\-COMPATibility=4.6\fP option instead.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_sob.so
.SH RECEIVE
The receive variant takes a change package created by the send variant
and creates an Aegis change (see \fIaenc\fP(1)) to implement the change
within.  Files are added to the change (see \fIaerm\fP(1), \fIaecp\fP(1),
\fIaenf\fP(1) and \fIaent\fP(1)) and then the file contents are unpackaged
into the development directory.
.PP
The change is then built (see \fIaeb\fP(1)), differenced (see
\fIaed\fP(1)), and tested (see \fIaet\fP(1)).  If all of this is
successful, development of the change is ended (see \fIaed\fP(1)).
The automatic process stops at this point, so that a local reviewer can
confirm that the change is desired.
.SS Notification
The \fI\*(n)\fP command invokes various other Aegis commands.
The usual notifications that these commands would issue are issued.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the receive variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-Change\fP \fInumber\fP
This option may be used to choose the change number to be used,
otherwise one will be chosen automatically.
.TP 8n
\fB\-DELta\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular
delta in the project's history to copy the file from,
just as for the \fIaecp\fP(1) command.
You may also use a delta name instead of a delta number.
.so lib/en/man1/o_dir.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_file_cs.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-PATch\fP
This option may be used to apply patches from the input, if available.
This generally results in fewer merge problems, but it requires the two
repositories to be well synchronized.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_PATch\fP
This option may be used to ignore patches in the input, if any are present.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_UUID\fP
This option may be used to ignore the UUID, if present, of the
incoming change set.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_Ignore_UUID\fP
This option force the \fIaedist\fP command to use the change set's UUID.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Output\fP \fIfilename\fP
This option may be used to specify a filename which is to be written with
the automatically determined change number.  Useful for writing scripts.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Project\fP \fIname\fP
This option may be used to set the project name.
If not specified, the project name in the input package will be used,
rather than the usual project name defaulting mechanism.
.so lib/en/man1/o_trojan.so
.SS Security
Receiving changes by e\[hy]mail, and automatically committing them to the
baseline without checking them, would be a recipe for disaster.
A number of safeguards are provided:
.TP 2n
\(bu
The format of the package is confirmed to be correct, and the package
verified for internal consistency, before it is unpacked and acted
upon.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The automatic portion of the process stops when development ends.  This
ensures that a local reviewer validates the change before it is committed,
preventing accidental or malicious damage.
.TP 2n
\(bu
If the change seeks to update the project \fIconfig\fP file, the
automatic process terminates before the build or difference occurs.
This is because this file could contain trojans for these operations,
so a human must examine the file before the change proceeds any further.
.TP 2n
\(bu
There is a \fIpotential_trojan_horse = [ string ];\fP
field in the project\fIconfig\fP file.
Nominate build configuration files, shell scripts, code generators, \fIetc\fP
here to specify files in addition to the project configuration file which should
cause the automatic processing to halt.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The use of e\[hy]mail authentication and encryption systems, such as PGP and
GPG, are encouraged.  However, it is expected that this processing will
occur after \&\fIaedist \-send\fP has constructed the package and before
\&\fIaedist \-receive\fP examines and acts on the package.
Verification of the sender is the surest defense against trojan horses.
.TP 2n
\(bu
Automatic sending and receiving of packages is supported, but not
implemented within the \*(n) command.  It is expected that the \*(n)
command will be used within shell scripts customized for your site and
its unique security requirements.
See the Aegis User Guide for several different ways to do this.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The more you use Aegis' test management facilities (see \&\fIaent\fP(1)
and \&\fIaet\fP(1)) the harder it is for an inadequate change to get into
the baseline.
.SS "Duplicate Storms"
In a distributed development environment, it is common for
change sets to eventually be propagated back to the originator.
There are situations (particularly in some star topologies)
where several copies of the package will return to the originator.
.PP
If these change sets are not detected at the review stage, and are
propagated out yet again, there is the possibility of an exponential
explosion of redundant packages being distributed again and again.
.PP
To combat this, changes are checked after the files are unpacked, but
before and build or difference or test is performed.  The \[lq]\fIaecpu
\-unchanged\fP\[rq] command is used to exclude all files that the local
repository already has in the desired form.  If no change files remain
after this, the change is dropped entirely (see \&\fIaedbu\fP(1) and
\&\fIaencu\fP(1)).
.SH REPLAY
If you are tracking a remote site which makes a project available via the
\fIaeget\fP(1) web interface, you can automatically synchronize with the
remote site using the \fIaedist \-replay\fP command.
.PP
For example, Aegis developers can track the master project with
a command of the form:
.RS
.ft CW
aedist \-p aegis.\*(v) \-replay \-f aegis.sourceforge.net
.ft P
.RE
This command is internally rewritten as
.RS
.ft CW
aedist \-replay \-p aegis.\*(v) \-f \e
  http://aegis.sf.net/cgi\[hy]bin/aeget/aegis.\*(v)/?inventory
.ft P
.RE
If your \f[CW]cgi\[hy]bin\fP directory is somewhere else, you will need to
use the long form.
.PP
The change set inventory page is human readable if you want to see
what it contains.  The links on this page provide all the information
necessary to download any of the change sets listed.
.PP
This command reads the list of change set UUIDs from the remote
repository, and compares it with the list of change set UUIDs in the
local repository, and fetches any that are not present locally.
.PP
Each of the change sets required are downloaded and unpacked by issuing
a command such as
.RS
.ft CW
aedist \-rec \-f \e
  http://aegis.sf.net/cgi\[hy]bin/aeget/aegis.4.19.C010/?aedist
.ft R
.RE
If this completes successfully (and it is possible it won't,
either because of trojan warnings, or some conflict between local
changes and the incoming remote changes), and your project has its
\fIdevelop_\%end_\%action\fP set to \fIgoto_\%awaiting_\%integration\fP,
the change will be integrated using a command such as:
.RS
.ft CW
aeintegratq \-p aegis.\*(v) \-c 10
.ft R
.RE
and then starts over again for the next missing change set.
.PP
This command will attempt to use the same change number as in the remote
repository, if it is available.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by this variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to exclude some change sets from being
downloaded and unpacked.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be downloaded
and unpacked, to the exclusion of all others.  This option may be used
more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-EXclude_VERsion\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly exclude some change set from
being downloaded and unpacked.  The \fIpattern\fP is matched against
the version as displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used
more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-INclude_VERsion\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be downloaded
and unpacked, to the exclusion of all others.  The \fIpattern\fP is
matched against the version as displayed in the inventory.  This
option may be used more than once.
.so lib/en/man1/o_file_cs.so
.TP 8n
.B \-MAXimum
This option may be used to download as many changes as possible by
excluding the maximum number of local changes sets, by excluding both
local change sets UUIDs (the default) but also excluding UUIDs mentioned
in change "original\[hy]uuid" attributes.
.TP 8n
.B \-PErsevere
This option may be used to specify that all relevant change sets
should be downloaded, even if some fail.  Defaults to the user's
\fIpersevere_\%preference\fP if not specified, see \fIaeuconf\fP(5) for
more information.
.TP 8n
.B \-No_PErsevere
This option may be used to specify that the downloading of change
sets should stop after the first failure.  Defaults to the user's
\fIpersevere_\%preference\fP if not specified, see \fIaeuconf\fP(5) for
more information.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.TP 8n
.B \-Trojan
This option is passed to any \fIaedist\fP(1) commands spawned by this command.
.TP 8n
.B \-No_Trojan
This option is passed to any \fIaedist\fP(1) commands spawned by this command.
.TP 8n
.B \-Not_Compatibility
This option must be used when using \f[I]aedist \-replay\f[P] against
a file based inventory.
.SH MISSING
If you want to see the change sets that \fIaedist \-replay\fP may
download before it goes ahead and does it, you can use a command such as:
.RS
.ft CW
aedist \-missing \-f aegis.sf.net
.ft R
.RE
In particular, this allows you to select appropriate UUIDs for the
\fIaedist \-replay \-exclude\fP or \fI\-no\[hy]exclude\fP options.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by this variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to exclude some change sets from being
listed.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be listed,
to the exclusion of all others.  This option may be used more than
once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-EXclude_VERsion\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly exclude some change set from
being listed.  The \fIpattern\fP is matched against the version as
displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-INclude_Version\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be listed,
to the exclusion of all others.  The \fIpattern\fP is matched against
the version as displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used
more than once.
.TP 8n
.B \-MAXimum
This option may be used to download as many changes as possible by
excluding the maximum number of local changes sets, by excluding both
local change sets UUIDs (the default) but also excluding UUIDs mentioned
in change "original\[hy]uuid" attributes.
.SH PENDING
If you want to see the change sets that a remote repository is missing
with respect to yours, you can use a command such as:
.RS
.ft R
aedist \-pending \-f aegis.sf.net
.ft R
.RE
.SS Options
The following options are understood by this variant:
\fB\-EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to exclude some local change sets from being
listed.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_EXclude_UUID\fP \fIUUID\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list local change sets to be listed,
to the exclusion of all others.  This option may be used more than
once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-EXclude_VERsion\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly exclude some local change set from
being listed.  The \fIpattern\fP is matched against the version as
displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\fB\-INclude_VERsion\fP \fIpattern\fP
This option may be used to explicitly list local change sets to be listed,
to the exclusion of all others.  The \fIpattern\fP is matched against
the version as displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used
more than once.
.SH INVENTORY
The inventory variant can be used as an alternative to aeget to
generate the inventory used by the replay, missing and pending
variants.  The idea is to run the inventory variant on the development
machine and then upload its output to the public repository.
In order to generate the inventory you can use a command such as:
.RS
.ft R
aedist \-inventory \-proj project > inventory.html
.ft R
.RE
.SS Options
The following options are understood by this variant:
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-AEGET\f[P]
This option is used by aeget to require the original
\f[I]aeget\f[P](1) behavior.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-All\f[P]
This option is used to require the inclusion of the UUIDs contained in
the original\[hy]UUID attribute of each change.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-EXclude_Version\f[P] \f[I]pattern\f[P]
This option may be used to explicitly exclude some change set to
be added to the inventory file.  The \f[I]pattern\f[P] is matched against
the version as displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used
more than once.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-INclude_Version\f[P] \f[I]pattern\f[P]
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be added
to the the inventory file, to the exclusion of all others.  The
\f[I]pattern\f[P] is matched against the version as displayed in the
inventory.  This option may be used more than once.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-path_prefix_add\f[P]
This option is used to add a path prefix to the URLs generated in the
inventory.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.SH ARCHIVE
As an alternative to using the \f[I]aeget\f[P](1) CGI program, the
\*(n) archive variant is provided.  This variant can be used to
populate a directory with the aedist archives of each change with an
UUID.  The archives will have a name based on the UUID of the change
with extension ".ae", the fingerprint of the archive will be stored in
a file with the same (base)name with extension ".fp".
Running the archive variant multiple times against the same target directory
will update that directory, adding the files of changes integrated after the
last run and regenerating the files if a corruption is detected.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the archive variant:
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-Change\[hy]Directory\f[P] \f[I]directory\f[P]
This option is used to designate the directory to be populated with the
\f[I]aedist\f[P](1) generated files.
If this option is not used then the current directory is used as the
target of the command.
The directory must exists and be accessible by the user running the
command.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-EXclude_Version\f[P] \f[I]pattern\f[P]
This option may be used to explicitly exclude some change set to
be added to the target directory.  The \f[I]pattern\f[P] is matched against
the version as displayed in the inventory.  This option may be used
more than once.
.TP 8n
\f[B]\-INclude_Version\f[P] \f[I]pattern\f[P]
This option may be used to explicitly list change sets to be added
to the target directory, to the exclusion of all others.  The
\f[I]pattern\f[P] is matched against the version as displayed in the
inventory.  This option may be used more than once.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.SH LIST
The list variant can be used to list the contents of a package without
actually unpacking it first.
The output is reminiscent of the \fIaegis \-list change\[hy]details\fP output.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the list variant:
.so lib/en/man1/o_file_cs.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_output.so
Only useful with the \-List option.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options to this command haven't been mentioned yet:
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH FILE FORMAT
The file format re\[hy]uses existing formats, rather than introduce anything
new.  This means it is possible to extract the contents of a package
even when \*(n) is unavailable.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The source files and other information is stored as a \fIcpio\fP(1) archive.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The archive is compressed using the \fIbzip2\fP(1) format.  Typically primary
source files are ASCII text, resulting in significant compression.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The compressed result is encoded using the MIME base64 encoding.
This makes the result approximately 33% larger than the compressed binary
would be, but still smaller than the primary sources.
.PP
The \fIcpio\fP archive is used to store
.TP 8n
\f(CWetc/project\[hy]name\fP
This contains the project name to apply the package to,
unless over\[hy]ridden by the \-project command line option.
.TP 8n
\f(CWetc/change\[hy]number\fP
This contains the change number of the original change, this may be
preserved if available on the target repository unless over\[hy]ridden by
the \-change command line option.
.TP 8n
\f(CWetc/change\[hy]set\fP
This contains the change attributes and the list of source files and
usages, in \fIaecstate\fP(5) format.
.TP 8n
\f(CWpatch/\fP\fIfilename\fP
Each modified or renamed file in the package (named in
\fIetc/change\[hy]set\fP) appears under the \fIpatch\fP directory.
The file may be empty unless some edits was done on the source
repository.
.TP 8n
\f(CWsrc/\fP\fIfilename\fP
Each source file in the package (named in \fIetc/change\[hy]set\fP)
appears under the \fIsrc/\fP directory.
.PP
Extra files, or files out of order, are a fatal error.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.SH CREDITS
This program evolved through discussion with a number of people.
If I have forgotten anyone, it wasn't intentional.
.TS
tab(;);
l l l.
Ralf Fassel;<ralf@akutech.de>;Catching trojan horses.
Walter Franzini;<walter.franzini@sys\[hy]net.it>;coding \-replay download
Florian Xhumari;<Florian.Xhumari@inria.fr>;On the need for pull interfaces.
Graham Wheeler;<gram@cdsec.com>;HTTP pull interfacing.
.TE
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
