'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aediff
.TH "aediff" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aediff \- file differences between deltas
.XX "aediff(1)" "file differences between deltas"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to
obtain the difference between versions of the given \fIfilename\fP
across different file versions, a specified by the command lien
options.
.PP
If two changes or deltas are specified, the difference between the
versions of the file in each will be output.
.PP
If only one change or delta is specified,
the second version defaults to the current change.
.PP
If no changes or deltas are specified, the first version defaults to the
baseline and the second version defaults to the current change.
.SS Examples
To see the difference in the project configuration file,
\fIaegis.conf\fP, between deltas 1.2.D003 and 4.5.D067 the following
command may be used:
.RS
\*(n) aegis.conf \-c 1.2.D003 \-c 4.5.D067
.RE
To see the differences in the project configuration file, between the
head of the 7.6 branch and the current change, the following command may
be used:
.RS
\*(n) \-branch 7.6 \-bl  aegis.conf
.RE
Many, many other combinatiosn are possible.
.SS Using Graphical Tools
It is possible to use a graphical diff tool with the \fI\*(n)\fP(1)
command.  This is done by using the \-command\fP option, or setting
the \f[CW]AE2DIFF\fP environment variable.  For example, to use the
\fItkdiff\fP(1) command to display the differences you would use a
command such as:
.RS
\*(n) \-command=tkdiff \fIfilename\fP
.RE
If you use this option, many of the \fIdiff\fP(1)\[hy]specific options will
be ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_baselin.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-COMmand\fP \fIstring\fP
This option may be used to set the command used to display differences.
Using this option will cause \fIdiff\fP(1)\[hy]specific options to be
ignored.  If not set, defaults to the value of the \f[CW]AE2DIFF\fP
environment variable, or "diff" otherwise.
.TP 8n
\fB\-CONtext\fP [ \fIlines\fP ]
Use the context output format, showing \fIlines\fP (an integer) lines of
context, or three if \fIlines\fP is not given.  For proper operation,
\fIpatch\fP(1) typically needs at least two lines of context.
.so lib/en/man1/o_delta.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_Blank_Lines\fP
Ignore changes that just insert or delete blank lines.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_All_Space\fP
Ignore white space when comparing lines.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_Case\fP
Ignore changes in case; consider upper\[hy]case and lower\[hy]case to be
the same.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_Space_Change\fP
Ignore changes in amount of white space.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Show_C_Function\fP
Show which C function each change is in.
.so lib/en/man1/o_trunk.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-unified\fP [ \fIlines\fP ]
Use the unified output format, showing \fIlines\fP (an integer) lines
of context, or three if lines is not given.  For proper operation,
\fIpatch\fP(1) typically needs at least two lines of context.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
