'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1994, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -DELta_NAme" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -DELta_NAme \- assign a symbolic name to a project delta
.XX "aedn(1)" "assign a symbolic name to a project delta"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -DELta_NAme
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I name
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -DELta_NAme
command is used to
add a symbolic name to a project delta.
This is so that this name may be used, rather than the number,
when extracting previous versions of the file
using the
.IR aecp (1)
command.
.PP
The \fB\-DELta\fP \fInumber\fP option on the command line specifies a
delta number of the project.
That is, it is the delta number assigned to an integration.
Delta names may only be applied to project baselines.
If no delta number is given on the command line,
the current baseline is the default.
.PP
A name must be given on the command line.
This is the name which will be assigned to the delta.
If the name has already been used,
you will be given a fatal error message.
If you also specify the
.B -OverWriting
option the name will be removed from its previous delta and assigned
to the requested delta.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB-DELta\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular
delta in the project's history to name.
.TP 8n
\fB-DELta_DAte\fP \fIstring\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular date and time in the
project's history.
.TP 8n
\fB-Delta_From_Change\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular delta in the project's
history, based on when the given change was successfully integrated.
.so o_list.so
.so o_overw.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy a file into a change,
particularly the
.B -DELta
option
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
start the integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR ael (1)
list interesting this,
particularly the
.I project_history
listing
.so z_cr.so
