'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "aeedit" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aeedit \- edit a change's files
.XX "aeedit(1)" "edit a change's files"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aeedit
[ \fB\-p\fP \fIproject\[hy]name\fP ]
[ \fB\-c\fP \fIchange\[hy]number\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIaeedit\fP command is used to edit all of the files in a change.
For editors with one buffer per file, this can be very useful
except for changes with huge numbers of files.
.PP
The editor's current directory is changed to the top of the change's
development directory tree.
.PP
If you have PlasticFS installed, the editor's environment will be
configured to present the development directory as the complete search
path.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-p\fP \fIproject\[hy]name\fP
This option may be used to set the project name.
.TP 8n
\fB\-c\fP \fIchange\[hy]number\fP
This option may be used to set the change number.
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.br
.ne 2i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.so etc/version.so
aeedit version \*(V)
.br
.if t .ds C) \(co
.if n .ds C) (C)
Copyright \*(C) \*(Y) Scott Finneran
.PP
The \*(n) program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
for details use the '\fI\*(n) \-VERSion License\fP' command.
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
