'\" t
.\"     aegis - project change supervisor
.\"     Copyright (C) 2004, 2006-2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"     Copyright (C) 2008 Walter Franzini
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-File_ATtributes" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis file attributes \- modify the attributes of a file
.XX "aefa(1)" "modify the attributes of a file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-File_ATtributes
.B \-File
.I attr\[hy]file
[
.IR option ...
]
.I filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-File_ATtributes
.B \-Edit
[
.IR option ...
]
.I filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-File_ATtributes
[
.IR option ...
]
\f[I]name\fP\fB=\fP\f[I]value\fP
.I filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-File_ATtributes
.B \-UUID \f[I]number\f[P]
.B \-File \f[I]filename\f[P]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-File_ATtributes
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-File_ATtributes
command is used to set, edit or list the attributes of a file.
.PP
The output of the
.B \-List
variant is suitable for use as input at a later time.
.PP
See
.IR aefattr (5)
for a description of the file format.
.PP
Attribute names are not case sensitive.  File attributes with a name
starting with an upper case letter will appear in \f[I]ael\fP(1) and
\f[I]aeget\fP(1) listings, while those starting with a lower case letter
will not.
.SS Shorthand
If you are only setting the values of unique attributes, it is possible
to do this from the command line, using the \f[I]name\fP\fB=\fP\f[I]value\fP
form.
.PP
Note that this usage will replace the first attribute with the given name.  If
there is more than one attribute of that name, the second and subsequent
attributes are unchanged.  If there is no attribute of the given name,
it will be appended.
.PP
You may set more than one attribute at a time, provided that
their names are unique.  Attribute names are not case sensitive.
.SS Known Attribute Names
While many of the anticipated uses of file attributes are to allow
projects to attach their own specialized data to individual files, Aegis
also uses some attributes for its own purposes (and arguably, should
always have done so to maximize forwards compatibility across Aegis
upgrades).
.TP 8n
aede\[hy]policy\[hy]crlf\[hy]allowed
boolean.
If true, the \f[I]crlf\fP policy of the \f[I]aede\[hy]policy\fP(1) command
does not apply.
.TP 8n
aede\[hy]policy\[hy]escape\[hy]hyphen
boolean.
If false, the \f[I]escape\[hy]hyphen\fP policy of the
\f[I]aede\[hy]policy\fP(1) command does not apply.
.TP 8n
aede\[hy]policy\[hy]line\[hy]length
integer.
The maximum allowed line length in the \f[I]line\[hy]length\fP policy of the
\f[I]aede\[hy]policy\fP(1) command; infinity if 0.
.\" .TP 8n
.\" aede\[hy]policy\[hy]manifest\[hy]allowed
.\" boolean.  If true, the aded "manifest" policy is not applied.
.\" .TP 8n
.\" aede\[hy]policy\[hy]no\[hy]manifest
.\" boolean.  If false, the aded "manifest" policy is not applied.
.TP 8n
aede\[hy]policy\[hy]tabs\[hy]allowed
boolean.
If true, the \f[I]no\[hy]tabs\fP policy of the
\f[I]aede\[hy]policy\fP(1) command
does not apply.
.TP 8n
aeipass\[hy]options:assign\[hy]file\[hy]uuid
boolean.  If false, \f[I]aeipass\fP will not assign a fresh UUID to this
file.  This flag is set by \f[I]aedist\fP \-rec if the action associated
with the file is a create and the file is missing the UUID.  This
behaviour is needed to prevent the effect of having different UUIDs
assigned to the same file in different repositories.
.TP 8n
aemakegen:noinst
boolean.  If true, \f[I]aemakegen\fP(1) will not cause the program
to be installed.  Usually attached to the source file containing the
\f[I]main\fP function, or to script files.  Defaults to false if not
defined (\f[I]i.e.\fP do install program).
.TP 8n
content\[hy]type
This is taken directly from the MIME definition of Content\[hy]Type.
It remembers what sort of file this is.  It is anticipated that a
\f[I]diff\fP tool, for example, could make use of this attribute to
provide format\[hy]specific file difference listings.  Some change set
interchange formats are capable of carrying this information.
.TP 8n
entire\[hy]source\[hy]hide
boolean.  If true, this file is not included by the \f[I]aedist
\-entire\[hy]source\fP flag.  The \f[I]aetar\fP and \f[I]aerevml\fP commands
work similarly.  Think of it as a "local only" flag.
.TP 8n
foreign\[hy]copyright
boolean.  If true, this file will not be checked by the
\f[I]aede\[hy]policy\fP(1) \f[CW]copyright\fP validation.
.TP 8n
local\[hy]source\[hy]hide
boolean.  If true, this file is not included by \f[I]aedist\fP
change sets.  The \f[I]aetar\fP and \f[I]aerevml\fP commands work similarly.
Change sets which contain \f[I]only\fP thee files will be omitted
from the \f[I]aedist \-inventory\fP output.
Think of it as a "local only" flag.
.TP 8n
test/\f[I]arch\fP/elapsed
This is used to estimate test duration.
See \f[I]aet\fP(1) for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_baserel.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
\f[B]\-Universal_Unique_IDentifier\f[P] \f[I]number\f[P]
This option may be used to set the UUID of a file.
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aefa '\*(n) \-fat \e!* \-v'
sh$     aefa(){\*(n) \-fat "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if the current user is not an administrator of the
specified project.
.br
It is an error if the current user is not the developer of the specified
change.
.br
It is an error if the file is not included in the specified change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeca (5)
modify the attributes of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aefattr (5)
file attributes file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
