'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2002, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so libdir.so
.so z_name.so
.TH "aegis.cgi" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis.cgi \- Aegis web interface script
.XX "aegis.cgi(1)" "Aegis web interface script"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aegis.cgi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "aegis.cgi"
command is used to
interface between a web server and Aegis.
.SS Installation
If you have a Web server, you may like to install the Aegis web interface.
You do this by copying the \fIaegis.cgi\fP script from
\fI\*(B)/aegis.cgi\fP into your web server's \fIcgi-bin\fP directory.
There is an \fIaegis.cgi.i\fP helper script,
if you don't know where your web server's \fIcgi-bin\fP directory is.
.PP
You may prefer to use a symbolic link, as this will be more stable
across Aegis upgrades.  However, this requires a corresponding
\fIfollow-symlinks\fP setting in your web server's configuration file.
(Use the \fIaegis.cgi.i \-s\fP option.)
.PP
Within the \f(CWaegis.cgi\fP script, you may set the \fIAEGIS_PATH\fP
environment variable, if you want it to be able to see more
projects than just the global projects.  You do this by creating a
\fI/usr/local/lib/\%aegis.cgi.conf\fP file (there isn't one, by default)
and setting the \fIAEGIS_PATH\fP environment variable in it.  This is
a fragment of Bourne shell script, not just the name.
.SS Usage
Once installed, it should be possible to see the project list
by following this URL:
.RS
http://localhost/cgi-bin/aegis.cgi?
.RE
You may need to replace \fIlocalhost\fP with the machine's exact name.
.SS Cascading Style Sheets
The web interface uses Cascading Style Sheets.  You can give the
web interface a personalised look and feel, by creating stylesheets
in the web server's Document Root directory.
The interface will use it's default styles, then styles from a global
style sheet called \f[CW]aedefault.css\fP, and then styles from a project
stylesheet called \fIprojectname\fP\f[CW].css\fP (replace \fIprojectname\fP
with the name of the project).
.PP
There is an example style sheet in
\f[CW]\*(B)/aedefault.css\fP which demonstrates the style elements used.
This particular stylesheet is not designed to be aesthetically pleasing,
but to exercise all of the elements.
Using this stylesheet unmodified will give psychedelic results.
Use it as a template.
.so z_cr.so
