'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aegrep
.TH "aegrep" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegrep \- print lines matching a pattern
.XX "aegrep(1)" "print lines matching a pattern"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I pattern
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to
search the source files
for lines
containing a match to the given \f[I]pattern\fP.
By default, \fI\*(n)\fP prints the matching lines.
.PP
There is no need to name files on the command line,
all the project and change source files are supplied automatically.
All non\[hy]source files are ignored.
.PP
Most of the \f[I]grep\fP(1) options are understood, in their long form.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-After\-Context=\fP\f[I]number\fP
Print \f[I]number\fP lines of trailing context after matching lines.
Places a line containing a group separator (\-\-) between
contiguous groups of matches.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Before\-Context=\fP\f[I]number\fP
Print \f[I]number\fP lines of trailing context before matching lines.
Places a line containing a group separator (\-\-) between
contiguous groups of matches.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Byte\-Offset\fP
Print the 0\[hy]based byte offset within the input file before each line
of output.
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-color\fP
Surround the matched (non\[hy]empty) strings, matching lines,
context lines, file names, line numbers, byte offsets, and
separators (for fields and groups of context lines) with escape
sequences to display them in color on the terminal.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Context=\fP\f[I]number\fP
Print \f[I]number\fP lines of output context.  Places a line containing
a group separator (\-\-) between contiguous groups of matches.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Count\fP
Suppress normal output; instead print a count of matching lines for each
input file.  With \fB\-\-invert\-match\fP option count non\[hy]matching
lines.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-extended\-regexp
Interpret \f[I]pattern\fP as an extended regular expression.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Files\-With\-Matches\fP
Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input
file from which output would normally have been printed.  The
scanning will stop on the first match.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Files\-WithOut\-Matches\fP
Suppress normal output; instead print the name of each input
file from which no output would normally have been printed.  The
scanning will stop on the first match.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-fixed\-strings\fP
Interpret \f[I]pattern\fP as a list of fixed strings, separated by
newlines, any of which is to be matched.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Ignore\-Case\fP
Ignore case distinctions in both the \f[I]pattern\fP and the source
files.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Invert\-Match\fP
Invert the sense of matching, to select non\[hy]matching lines.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Initial\-Tab\fP
Make sure that the first character of actual line content lies
on a tab stop, so that the alignment of tabs looks normal.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Line\-Buffered
Use line buffering on output.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Line\-Number
Prefix each line of output with the 1\[hy]based line number within
its input file.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Line\-Regexp\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Maximum\-Count=\fP\f[I]number\fP
Stop reading a file after \f[I]number\fP matching lines.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-no\-messages\fP
Suppress error messages about nonexistent or unreadable files.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Only\-Matching\fP
Print only the matched (non\[hy]empty) parts of a matching line,
with each such part on a separate output line.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Perl\-Regexp
Interpret \f[I]pattern\fP as a Perl regular expression.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Unix\-Byte\-Offset
Report Unix\[hy]style byte offsets.
.TP 8n
\fB\-\-Word\-Regexp\fP
Select only those lines containing matches that form whole
words.  The test is that the matching substring must either be
at the beginning of the line, or preceded by a non\[hy]word
constituent character.  Similarly, it must be either at the end
of the line or followed by a non\[hy]word constituent character.
Word\[hy]constituent characters are letters, digits, and the
underscore.
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]aefind\fP(1)
search for files in directory hierarchy
.TP 8n
\f[I]grep\fP(1)
print lines matching a pattern
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
