'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Integrate_Begin" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis integrate begin \- begin integrating a change
.XX "aeib(1)" "begin integrating a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin
.I change\[hy]number
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Integrate_Begin
command is used to
begin the integration of a change into the baseline of a project.
.PP
The change will advance
from the
.I "awaiting integration"
state to the
.I "being integrated"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S4: box "awaiting" "integration"
arrow " integrate" ljust " begin" ljust
S5: box "being" "integrated"
move to S5.w
T4: spline -> left 0.5 then up 1 then to S4.w
" integrate" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T4.c - (0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PP
A (logical) copy of the baseline is created in an
.IR "integration directory"
and the the files of the change are added to the integration directory.
The time stamps of files copied from the baseline are preserved,
time stamps on the files copied from the development directory
are all set to the time of the beginning of the integration.
The
.I "'\*(n) \-Change_Directory'"
command may be used to locate the integration directory.
The change will be assigned to the current user.
.PP
Please note that only regular files and symbolic links are copied
(linked) from the baseline to the integration directory.  This has
some implications:
.IP \(bu 2n
Special files (devices, named pipes, \fIetc\fP) will not be reproduced
in the integration directory; you will need to create these as part of
the build.
.IP \(bu 2n
If the case of the \fB\-minimum\fP option (see below), only primary source
files are copied (linked) across.  Derived files (including symbolic
links) are expected to be created as part of the build.
.IP \(bu 2n
If the case of the \fB\-minimum\fP option, directories are only created
when required to hold a file which satisfies the above criteria.  If you
need special empty directories, or directories which contain only special
files, or only contain derived files, you need to create them as part of
the build.
.PP
The
.I link_integration_directory
field of the
project
configuration
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information) controls whether the copy of the baseline is done
by copying the files or by creating hard links to the files.  The hard
links are just one of the constraints on the location of the integration
directory.  The integrate begin will abort with an error if this copy
operation fails, e.g. by running out of disk space.  If this should
happen, the change will remain in the
.I "awaiting integration"
state, and the integration directory will be removed.
.PP
The change will be assigned a delta number.
Delta numbers are incremented once for each
.I "\*(n) \-Integrate_Begin"
command for the project.
If an integration is subsequently aborted with either the
.I "\*(n) \-Integrate_Begin_Undo"
or
.I "\*(n) \-Integrate_FAIL"
command,
the delta number will not be re\[hy]used.
.PP
It is not possible to choose the integration directory,
as there are many constraints upon it,
including the fact that it must be
on the same device as the baseline directory,
and that many UNIX implementations don't allow renaming
directories up and down the trees.
The integration directory will be in the project directory,
and named for the delta number.
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the
\fIintegration_\%begin_\%command\fP field of the project \fIconfig\fP
file is run, if set.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.SH Minimum Integrations
.\" My thanks to Jerry Pendergraft for this section.
\*(N) provides a \fBminimum\fP integration capability which may be
used for various reasons.  The term \fBminimum\fP may be a bit counter
intuitive.  One might think it means to the \fBminimum\fP amount of
work, however it actually means use a \fBminimum\fP of files from the
baseline in populating the \fIdelta\fP directory.  This normally leads
to actually building everything in the project from sources and, as
such, might be considered the most robust of builds.
.PP
Note that any change which removes a file, whether by
\fIaerm\fP,
\fIaemv\fP or
\fIaemt\fP,
results in an implicit \fBminimum\fP integration.  This is
intended to ensure nothing in the project references the removed file.
.PP
A project may adopt a policy that a product release should be based on
a minimum integration.  Such a policy may be a reflection of local
confidence, or lack thereof, in the project's DMT (Dependency
Maintenance Tool) or build system.  Or it may be based on a validation
process wishing to make a simple statement on how the released package
was produced.
.PP
Another, more transient, reason a to require a minimum integration
might be when upgrading a third party library, compiler or maybe even
OS level.  Any of these events would signal the need for a minimum
integration to ensure everything is rebuilt using the new resources.
.PP
The cost of a \fBminimum\fP integration varies according to type and
size of the project.  For very large projects, especially those
building large numbers of binaries, the cost can be large.  However
large projects also require significant time to fully populate the
delta directory.  A minimum integration only copies those files
under \*(N) control, skipping all \[lq]produced\[rq] files.  In the case
where a file upon which everything depends is changed, everything will
be built anyway so the copy of the already built files is a waste of
time.  This means that sometimes a minimum can be as cheap as a normal
integration.
.SS Change Set Attributes
The follwoing user\[hy]defined change set attributes are understood:
.TP 8n
integrate\[hy]begin\[hy]hint
If this is set to "minimum" or "maximum", it is as if these options
appeared on the command line.  Only consulted if neither \-minimum nor
\-maximum appear on the command line.
.PP
All other user defined change set attributes are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_min.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aeib '\*(n) \-ib \e!* \-v'
sh$     aeib(){\*(n) \-ib "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting integration"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not an integrator of the project.
.br
It is an error if
there is an integration in progress for the project.
.br
It is an error if
the current user developed the change and the project is configured to
disallow developers to integrate their own changes (default).
.br
It is an error if
the current user reviewed the change and the project is configured to
disallow reviewers to integrate their such changes (default).
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build a change
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aeibu (1)
reverse the aeib command
.TP 8n
.IR aeifail (1)
fail integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeintegratq (1)
Automate the integration queue.
.TP 8n
.IR aeipass (1)
pass integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeni (1)
add new integrators to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aet (1)
run tests
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
