'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1998, 2001, 2002, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Integrate_Begin_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis integrate begin undo \- reverse the aeib command
.XX "aeibu(1)" "reverse the aeib command"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin_Undo
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin_Undo
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Integrate_Begin_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Integrate_Begin_Undo
command is used to
reverse the actions of the
.I "'\*(n) \-Integrate_Begin'"
command.
.PP
Successful execution of this command will move the change
from the
.I "being integrated"
state to the
.I "awaiting integration"
state.
The integration directory will be deleted.
The change will cease to be assigned to the current user.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S4: box "awaiting" "integration"
arrow " integrate" ljust " begin" ljust
S5: box "being" "integrated"
move to S5.w
T4: spline -> left 0.5 then up 1 then to S4.w
" integrate" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T4.c - (0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.LP
In the unlikely event that an integrator has wandered away and left
an integration incomplete (say, went on holidays and won't be back for
two weeks), project administrators are also able to use this command.
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the
\fIintegration_\%begin_\%undo_\%command\fP field of the project
\fIconfig\fP file is run, if set.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more
information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_keep.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aeibu '\*(n) \-ibu \e!* \-v'
sh$     aeibu(){\*(n) \-ibu "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being_integrated"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user
and the current user is not a project administrator.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
