'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 Endocardial Solutions, Inc.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aeintegratq
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aeintegratq \- integrate changes into projects
.XX "aeintegratq(1)" "integrate changes into projects"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR project\[hy]name \&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to manage the integrations of one or more changes in
one or more projects.  Normally run via \fIcron\fP(1) or \fIat\fP(1)
with the name of a single project, \*(n) will manage all operations
for integration even when \fB\-Build\fP and \fB\-Test\fP are required
on multiple architectures. If a change review is revoked after the queue
is running \*(n) will notice the bad state and silently move on.
If one or more changes are ended or passed after the queue is running,
and \-loop has been given, \*(n) will notice the new change[s] and
integrate them. Additional options allow the integrator full control
over most aspects of queue management such as the order of integration
of multiple changes.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.SS Option Summary
.TP 8n
\fB\-h\fP
Help, show usage information.
.TP 8n
\fB\-H\fP
Help, show usage plus all helpful comment information.
.TP 8n
\fB\-a\fP
run on Any machine (normally only IntegrationHost)
.TP 8n
\fB\-s\fP
run remote operations via ssh (default rsh)
.TP 8n
\fB\-n\fP
No action, just tell what would be done.
.TP 8n
\fB\-ib\fP \fIs\fP
Specify (remote) server for ibegin.
.TP 8n
\fB\-ip\fP \fIs\fP
Specify (remote) server for ipass.
.TP 8n
\fB\-k\fP
Keep the scripts and report files.
.TP 8n
\fB\-K\fP
Keep the temp file even if integration passes.
.TP 8n
\fB\-loop\fP
Loop to process more changes if they become available before \*(n)
completes.  It will stop when there is nothing more to be done.
.TP 8n
\fB\-M\fP \fIlist\fP
Minimum, run given changes \fI\-minimum\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-P\fP \fIlist\fP
Precious, do not \fBIFail\fP changes in \fIlist\fP, just stop.
.TP 8n
\fB\-R\fP \fIlist\fP
Ready, specify order and subset, \fIe.g.\fP \-R 29,45
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP \fIstage\fP
Pick up at given stage (diff|build|test|integrate)
.TP 8n
\fB\-c\fP \fIchange\[hy]number\fP
specify Change to integrate at Stage
.TP 8n
\fB\-p\fP \fIproject\[hy]name\fP
specify single Project name
.PP
NOTE: if custom options such as \-P \-R \-S \-c \-p are given
only a single project may be integrated since the
options would be meaningless to the next project given.
.PP
Some options are present only for testing and investigation.
Note that options are rarely required for normal operations.
.SS Control Options
The following options are available for special needs.
They control the order and disposition of each change
\fBawaiting_integration\fP in a given project.
.TP 8n
\fB\-R\fP[eady] \fInumber1,number2...\fP
.RS
This option is used to specify order or subset to
integrate.  Only those changes listed will be attempted, and in exactly
the order given. This applies to queue looping if \fB\-loop\fP is
given. In particular note unless the list includes future changes,
future loops will not integrate them.
.PP
Useful if a particular change must go in before another for some
reason.  Or if only integrating one or two changes when several are
\fBawaiting_integration\fP in the given project.  A single change may
also be specified with the \fB\-c[hange]\fP \fInumber\fP option, which
is common for other aegis commands.  However the \fB\-R\fP option allows
a list and if given will override any \fB\-c\fP given.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-P\fP[recious] \fInumber1,number2...\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-P\fP[recious] \fBall\fP
.RS
This option is used to specify that a particular change or subset of
changes should be considered \fBprecious\fP.  It neither implies order
nor limits the queue run to that subset; it only means that the
changes should be considered \fBprecious\fP.
Note that at least one number (or the keyword \fIall\fP) must be given.
.PP
The concept of \fBprecious\fP means that if the given change were to
fail anywhere in the integration process, then the process simply
stops and leaves the problem change in the delta directory.  The
\fB\-IFail\fP would not actually be executed.  This is sometimes useful
to diagnose a problem which only occurs during integrations.  It is
also useful if the failure is due to a transient problem such as
unreliable machines on the network.  In such a case the integration can
be resumed after fixing the problem.  See the \fIstage\fP options
below.
.PP
If, on the other hand, a \fBprecious\fP change makes it through the
integration process successfully, the option has no effect.
.RE
.TP 8n
\fB\-M\fP[inimum] \fInumber1,number2...\fP or \fIall\fP
Integrate the given change[s] with the \fB\-minimum\fP option.  Such
changes will be put on the end of the queue so that the last
integrations of a run will be a minimum.  This feature allows
practical use of minimum integrations without requiring
\fB\-minimum\fP on each and every integration.  See the section below
on \fIMinimum integrations\fP for more information.
If \fB\-loop\fP is given any change[s] specified as minimum will run at
the end of the loop in which they are ready, they will not be pushed
to the final loop.
.TP 8n
\fB\-ib\fP[server] \fIserver\[hy]name\fP or ""
.TP 8n
\fB\-ip\fP[server] \fIserver\[hy]name\fP or ""
To specify a remote server on which to run \fB\-ibegin\fP or \B\-ipass\fP
respecively. These options are rarely needed, but may be useful if a
project is hosted on a different file server and has a large
baseline. By having the \fB\-ibegin\fP run on that server the network
traffic would be greatly reduced and for large projects and/or slow
networks can greatly reduce the time required for \fB\-ibegin\fP.
The option form of giving an empty name depends on the output of
\fBdf \-k\fP giving a parseable host name. If that is not true on your
integration host architecture, you will have to specify the server name.
.TP 8n
\fB\-display\fP \fIdisplay\[hy]value\fP or ""
To specify a valid X display for use during integration operations.
.SS Stage Options
The following options allow [re]starting an integration which has
already progressed through some stages.  This is useful to deal with
failed (\fIprecious\fP) integrations, or to finish automatically an
integration begun by hand.
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP[tage] \fBdiff\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP[tage] \fBbuild\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP[tage] \fBtest\fP
.TP 8n
\fB\-S\fP[tage] \fBintegrate\fP
Pick up the integration at the given \fBstage\fP.  Requires
\fB\-c\fP[hange] \fInumber\fP option to specify the change number.
.SH Advanced Controls
The integrator may provide for special situations such as operations
required after \fB\-Build\fP and before \fB\-Test\fP, or at the end of a
queue run.  Such capabilities are provided by \fBhooks\fP and
\fPstrategies\fP described below.
.SS Hooks
There are a set of \fIhooks\fP available which are run, if present, before
and after each stage of the integration.  They can be used to help
ensure that the integrator actually gets some sleep while managing
large projects.
.PP
These hooks are searched for in the directory
\fB$HOME/integration_hooks\fP.  None need exist; \*(n) will only
pay attention to any that do exist.  Hooks may be any form of executable
(script, etc) and are called with 2 arguments: \fBproject\[hy]name
change\[hy]number\fP.  They run as the integrator on the machine from which
\*(n) was started.  They are named using the project name along with a suffix
according to what place in the integration process you want them to run.
.PP
Note that if a hook for project \fBfoo\fP exists it is also used for any
branches under that project.  For example, if you have provided
\fBfoo.pre_ip\fP, it will be run for foo.1 and foo.1.0 as well.
If for some reason you want different (or no) action for project
\fBfoo.1.0\fP, then you would provide \fBfoo.1.0.pre_ip\fP which does
what you wish, including nothing, effectively overriding \fBfoo.pre_ip\fP.
.PP
Here is how to map particular places in the integration process to hook
suffixes.
.TS
center,box,tab(;);
l l.
run at time;extension
_
before attempting \-Integrate_Begin;.pre_ib
after \-Integrate_Begin completes;.ib
before attempting \-Diff;.pre_d
after \-Diff completes;.d
before attempting \-Build;.pre_b
after \-Build completes;.b
before attempting \-Build on <arch>;.pre_<arch>b
after \-Build on <arch> completes;.<arch>b
before attempting \-Test;.pre_t
after \-Test completes;.t
before attempting \-IPass;.pre_ip
after \-IPass completes;.ip
before attempting \-IFail;.pre_if
after \-IFail completes;.if
.TE
.PP
The hook program should exit with 0 if successful or 1 if not.  A non\[hy]zero
exit causes the change being integrated to fail immediately unless it was
marked precious.
.PP
Note that in most cases anything done via an \fB.ip\fP hook should
probably be done instead by the \fIipass_notify\fP command in the
project attributes file (see \fIaepattr\fP(5) for more information),
or the \fIbuild_\%time_\%adjust_\%notify_\%command\fP in the project
configuration file (see \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information), but the hook
can provide a temporary way to keep going until the permanent solution
can be implemented.
.PP
In addition two special hooks, \fBaeintegratq.end\fP and
\fBaeintegratq.fail\fP, are recognized.  They are called when
\fBaeintegratq\fP finishes a queue run.  They are called with 2 arguments
like any other hook (\fBproject\[hy]name change\[hy]number\fP) although both the
project\[hy]name and change\[hy]number given are of the last change integrated
and may be less than useful.
.PP
The \fB.end\fP hook is called if/when the queue run is finished and was
successful.  Note that this does not mean that no changes failed, only that no
queue errors occurred.  This hook might be used to invoke another queue
run on a different project/branch, or possibly even on the same project, if
other changes may have been ended and/or reviewed while the first run was
in progress, see also the \fB\-loop\fP option.  These conditions arise
quite often with flex time engineers.
Another use of the \fB.end\fP hook is to automatically build a new package
using the newly integrated project as source.
.PP
If queue errors were encountered, or a change failed that was marked
\fIprecious\fP, then the \fB.fail\fP hook is called.  An obvious use of that
hook would be an e\[hy]mailed page to the integrator.
.SS Strategy or Oops\[hy]retry
Sometimes a persistent build problem will plague integrations.  This
can be very annoying if it ruins an overnight run, especially if the cure
is simple when it happens.  Examples of this can be timeouts due to a busy
data server or other transient errors.  Note that this applies only to
\fB\-Build\fP related problems.
.PP
To deal with such problems the integrator may provide a \fIstrategy\fP
script specific to a project.  An executable program should be found in
\fB$HOME/strategy.<project_name>\fP.  The program will be run as the
integrator with the \fIdelta\fP directory as current directory.  The program
may do any commands necessary to clean up and/or diagnose the error.  If the
script finds the problem to be transient and fix\[hy]able, it exits successfully
(with 0 status) and \*(n) will re\[hy]launch the \fB\-Build\fP and log the
re\[hy]try.  Otherwise the script should exit with a 1 and the change will
fail.
.SH Multi\[hy]Architecture integrations
For projects which build and test on multiple architectures, \*(n)
requires \fIarch_hosts\fP be installed and have available at least
one machine of each architecture required.  This is also true if the
host from which \*(n) is run is of a different architecture from the
target architecture of the project being integrated.
.PP
If you wish to take advantage of multiple architecture automatic
integrations, you can install \fIarch_hosts\fP or provide a more simple
script which will return a machine name according to architecture and
job type.
.SH Minimum integrations
\*(A) provides a \fBminimum\fP integration capability which may be
used for various reasons.  The term \fBminimum\fP may be a bit counter
intuitive.  One might think it means to do the \fBminimum\fP amount of
work, however it actually means use a \fBminimum\fP of files from the
baseline in populating the \fIdelta\fP directory.  Since no constructed
files are put in the \fIdelta\fP directory, this normally leads
to actually building everything in the project from sources and, as
such, might be considered the most robust of builds.
.PP
Note that any change which removes a file, whether by \fIaerm\fP or
\fIaemv\fP, results in an implicit \fBminimum\fP integration.  This is
intended to ensure nothing in the project references the removed file.
.PP
A project may adopt a policy that a product release should be based on
a minimum integration.  Such a policy may be a reflection of local
confidence, or lack thereof, in the project's DMT (Dependency
Maintenance Tool) or build system.  Or it may be based on a validation
process wishing to make a simple statement on how the released package
was produced.
.PP
Another, more transient, reason a to require a minimum integration
might be when upgrading a third party library, compiler or maybe even
OS level.  Any of these events would signal the need for a minimum
integration to ensure everything is rebuilt using the new resources.
This can be done with minimum overhead using the \fB\-M\fP option as
described above.
.PP
The cost of a \fBminimum\fP integration varies according to type and
size of the project.  For very large projects, especially those
building large numbers of binaries, the cost can be large.  However
large projects also require significant time to fully populate the
delta directory.  A minimum integration only copies those files
under aegis control, skipping all \[lq]produced\[rq] files.  In the case
where a file upon which everything depends is changed, everything will
be built anyway so the copy of the already built files is a waste of
time.  This means that sometimes a minimum can be as cheap as a normal
integration.
.SH Manual Tests
\*(A) allows tests to be defined as \fImanual\fP which may be
necessary if the test requires human interaction or some transient
resource. Such tests can be problematic for automatic integrations
and generally must have some means to pass without running during
integrations. For this, and other, reasons most sites seek to avoid
\fImanual\fP tests. There are a number of ways to code a test such
that it will pass automatically during integrations. Just one example
for shell script tests might be:

.LP
.nb 1
CSTATE=`aesub \-p $AEGIS_PROJECT \-c $AEGIS_CHANGE '${state}'`
.br
if [ "$CSTATE" = "being_integrated" ]
.br
then
.br
    echo "`basename $0` passes during integration"
.br
    exit 0
.br
fi
.br

.SH Optional Support Programs
.so etc/libdir.so
There are some programs which \*(n) will use if they are installed.
.PP
\(bu \fIarch_hosts\fP
was mentioned previously.  It is optional only if your projects and
your \*(A) file server are of a single architecture.
.PP
\(bu
\fIaelogres\fP
may enhance the information provided in \fI\-IFail\fP
entries.  Normally all you get is the last 10 lines of the log file,
which is not bad if tests fail, but can be terrible for failed builds.
If you provide a program named \fIaelogres\fP which knows how to
extract a better succinct report of problems, the output of that
program will be used instead of the simple tail.
It is called with a \fI\-i\fP option.
.PP
\(bu
\fBsound_all_machines\fP,
if available, will be called when integrations either
pass or fail.  It can be helpful to announce the fact that an
integration has finished.  If it passed, developers will probably want
to do an \fBaed\fP to bring their changes up to date.  The audio
announcement provides another timely hint.
.PP
The sound files are searched for in the \*(S)/sounds directory.  They
will have endings of \fI_pass\fP and \fI_fail\fP according to the
results of a given attempt.  Two sound files are required:
\fIintegration_pass\fP and \fIintegration_fail\fP.  Others will be used
if provided to customize the sounds so that each developer may have
one or more personal sounds.  If a file named \fI<developer>_pass\fP is
located, it will be used.  If a set of files exist named
\fI<developer_pass.[0\[hy]9]\fP they will be used in random sequence.  The
same search rule applies to \fI_fail\fP sets.
The \fIsound_all_machines\fP program may use a host list and play the
sound file on each machine or, assuming that other audio capabilities
exist, might do any form of announcement desired.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH FILES
Control files are searched for in the \fI$HOME\fP directory.  They are
named strategy.<project>, They need not exist if no special action is
necessary.
.PP
The hook scripts are searched for in the \fI$HOME/integration_hooks\fP
directory.  They are named <project>.<stage>.  Also \fIaeintegratq.end\fP
and \fIaeintegratq.fail\fP.  These hooks also need not exist if no
special action is desired.
.br
.ne 2i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.so etc/version.so
\*(n) version \*(V)
.br
.if t .ds C) \(co
.if n .ds C) (C)
Copyright \*(C) 1998\[hy]2005 Endocardial Solutions, Inc.
.br
.PP
The \*(n) program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY;
This is free software
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
