'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1994, 1999, 2001, 2003-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-List" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis list \- list (possibly) interesting things
.XX "ael(1)" "list interesting things"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.I list\[hy]name
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-List
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-List
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-List
command is used to
list information.
There are a number of possible
.IR list\[hy]name s,
as follows (abbreviations as for command line options):
.TP 8n
Administrators
.br
List the administrators of a project.
.TP 8n
Branch_Details
.br
List full information about all the changes in the branch in large
format.  This listing will recurse down the full branch tree.
.TP 8n
Change_Details
.br
List full information about a change
in large format.
.TP 8n
Change_Files
.br
List all files in a change.
The verbose version includes details such as the action being taken,
the edit number of the file, and whether it's being moved.
The terse version only lists the files names (and omits removed files),
this is useful for shell scripts and interfacing with build tools.
.TP 8n
Change_File_History
.br
This listing shows the history of each file in the change.  It includes
each delta number (so that you may reproduce it) and brief description,
of each change which affected each file.
.TP 8n
Change_File_INventory
.br
This listing shows the filenames and their corresponding UUIDs.
When a file is renamed, its UUID remains constant.
(If the UUID column has the filename in it, this is a backwards
compatibility value, for accessing the file history.)
.\" with a nod to GNU Arch
.TP 8n
Change_History
.br
List the history of a change.
.TP 8n
Change_INventory
.br
List the changes of a project with their UUIDs.
.TP 8n
Changes
.br
List the changes of a project.
The verbose version includes details such as the state of the change and
it's brief description.  The terse version lists only the change numbers,
which is good for shell scripts.
.TP 8n
Default_Change
.br
List the default change for the specified user (defaults to the current
user if no user specified).
.TP 8n
Default_Project
.br
List the default project for the specified user (defaults to the current
user if no user specified).
.TP 8n
Developers
.br
List the developers of a project.
.TP 8n
INComplete
.br
List the changes between the \fIawaiting review\fP and \fIbeing
integrated\fP states, inclusive.  Defaults to all users if no user
name specified.
.TP 8n
Integrators
.br
List the integrators of a project.
.TP 8n
List_List
.br
List all lists available.
.TP 8n
Locks
.br
List all currently active locks.
.TP 8n
Outstanding_Changes
.br
List all changes owned by the specified user that are not yet completed
(default to all users if no user specified).
.TP 8n
All_Outstanding_Changes
.br
List all changes not yet completed, for all projects.
.TP 8n
Project_Details
.br
List full information about all the changes in the project in large
format.  This listing will recurse down the full branch tree below the
project.
.TP 8n
Project_Files
.br
List all files in the baseline of a project.
The verbose version includes details such as the action being taken,
the edit number of the file.
The terse version only lists the files names (and omits removed files),
this is useful for shell scripts and interfacing with build tools.
If a change number is given, files included in the change are omitted from
the list (giving the change's perspective on what the project files are).
.TP 8n
Project_File_INventory
.br
This listing shows the filenames and their corresponding UUIDs.
When a file is renamed, its UUID remains constant.
(If the UUID column has the filename in it, this is a backwards
compatibility value, for accessing the file history.)
.TP 8n
Project_History
.br
List the integration history of a project.
.TP 8n
Projects
.br
List all projects.
.TP 8n
Project_Aliases
.br
List all project aliases.
If you use the \fB\-Project\fP command line option, the list will
only include aliases of the specified project, or the project of the
specified alias.
.TP 8n
Reviewers
.br
List the reviewers of a project.
.TP 8n
State_File_Name
.br
Prints the absolute path of the project's or change's state file.
Useful for cookbooks and makefiles.
.TP 8n
Users_Changes
.br
List of changes owned by the specified user (defaults to current user
if no user specified).
.TP 8n
Version
.br
List version of a project or change.
This includes the major and minor version number,
and the previous version number if available.
The list of copyright years is also printed.
.PP
Most of these lists are available from other \*(n) functions.
Many \*(n) functions provide more specific lists.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_page.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_unforma.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias ael '\*(n) \-l \e!* \-v'
sh$     ael(){\*(n) \-l "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the list name given is unknown.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change (listing option)
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integration of a change (listing option)
.TP 8n
.IR aelcf (1)
list change files
.TP 8n
.IR aelpf (1)
list project files
.TP 8n
.IR aer (1)
report generator
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change (listing option)
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aels (1)
annotated directory listing
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
