'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aelock
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aelock \- take a lock while a command runs
.XX "aelock(1)" "take a lock while a command runs"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aelock
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR command
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)"\fP command is used to take a project lock while a command
runs.  This may be used to ensure that the project state is stable while
it is being backed up.
.PP
The named command is looked for as an attribute called
\f[CW]aelock:\fP\fIcommand\fP within the \fIproject_\&specific\fP field
of the project configuration file.
.PP
The command is then passed through the usual \fIaesub\fP(5)
substitutions before being executed.  The command is executed as the
project owner.  If the command returns with a non\[hy]zero exit status, the
\fI\*(n)\fP(1) command will return an exit status
of one.
.SS Security Issues
This command is a potential security problem.  Because it takes a
read\[hy]only lock of all active branches and changes in a project, from the
trunk down, misuse of this command is a potential denial of service
attack.  Thus, this command is limited to project administrators only.
.PP
This command could have been designed to take an arbitrary command to
execute, like \fIsudo\fP(1), but this would have granted users, even
project administrators, more privileges than usual.  For this reason,
the command is held in a source controlled, fully reviewed project
configuration file, and is simply indicated by name.
.PP
The command is run as the project owner, not the executing user.  It
has full write access (that's the way Unix permissions work).  Like
\fIaeb\fP(1), this means it can wreak havoc on the project baseline and
meta\[hy]data.  Use with extreme care.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
