'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aels
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aels \- annotated directory listing
.XX "aels(1)" "annotated directory listing"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
][
.IR filename \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to list information about the files
and directories named on the command line.  If no files are named,
the current directory is listed.
.PP
The view presented is from Aegis' perspective.
It unifies the development directory with the baseline.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
.B \-Recursive
.TP 8n
.B \-LOng
This option implies the
\fB\-Show\[hy]Mode\fP,
\fB\-Show\[hy]Attributes\fP,
\fB\-Show\[hy]User\fP,
\fB\-Show\[hy]Group\fP,
\fB\-Show\[hy]Size\fP and
\fB\-Show\[hy]When\fP
options, unless explicitly overridden.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Dot\[hy]Files
This option may be used to
show files starting with a dot (.).
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Dot\[hy]Files
This option may be used to
hide files starting with a dot (.).
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Removed\[hy]Files
This option may be used to include removed files in the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Removed\[hy]Files
This option may be used to exclude removed files from the listing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Mode
This option may be used to include the mode column in the listing.
The mode column indicates the file type and permissions.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Mode
This option may be used to exclude the mode column from the listing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Attributes
This option may be used to include the attributes column in the listing.
The attributes column indicates whether the file is part of the change,
the project or neither; whether the file is being created, modified or
removed; whether the file is a source file, a test file, or neither.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Attributes
This option may be used to exclude the attributes column from the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]User
This option may be used to include file owner information in the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]User
This option may be used to exclude file owner information from the listing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Group
This option may be used to include file group information in the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Group
This option may be used to exclude file group information from the listing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]Size
This option may be used to include file size information in the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]Size
This option may be used to exclude file size information from the listing.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
.B \-Show\[hy]When
This option may be used to include the file modification time in the listing.
.TP 8n
.B \-Hide\[hy]When
This option may be used to exclude the file modification time from the listing.
This is the default.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR ls (1)
list directory contents
.TP 8n
.IR aefind (1)
search for files in directory hierarchy
.TP 8n
.I "ael cf"
List change files.
.TP 8n
.I "ael pf"
List project files.
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
