'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, 2006-2008, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aemeasure
.TH "aemeasure" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aemeasure \- simple file metrics
.XX "aemeasure(1)" "simple file metrics"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aemeasure
[
.I infile
[
.I outfile
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIaemeasure\fP command is used to measure a few very simple file
statistics: lines of code, lines of comments, blank lines.  It is an
example of a probgram which produces its output in the \fIaemetrics\fP(5)
format, suitable for Aegis to read and understand as file metrics.
.PP
The language of the file is determined by examining the file suffix.
.TS
center,tab(;);
lw(1i) lw(3i).
T{
\&.c,
\&.h,
\&.y
T};T{
C language
T}
T{
\&.cc,
\&.CC,
\&.c++,
T};T{
C++ language
T}
T{
\&.man,
\&.mm,
\&.ms,
\&.so
T};T{
GNU Groff input
T}
.TE
.so lib/en/man1/z_metrics.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following option is understood
.TP
\fB\-LANGuage\fP \fIname\fP
.RS
This option may be used to specify the input language of the file,
rather than have the input language be guessed fromn the file suffix.
The name must be one of the following:
\f[CW]C\fP,
\f[CW]C++\fP,
\f[CW]roff\fP or
\f[CW]generic\fP.
Any other name will result in an error.
.RE
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeipass (1)
pass a change integration
.TP 8n
.IR aemetrics (5)
metrics values file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
