'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Make_Transparent_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Make_Transparent_Undo \- no longer make branch file transparent
.XX "aemtu(1)" "no longer make branch file transparent"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Make_Transparent_Undo
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename \&...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Make_Transparent_Undo
.B \-List
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Make_Transparent_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-Make_Transparent_Undo"
command is used to
reverse the effects of the
.I "\*(n) \-Make_Transparent"
command.
The named files will be removed from the list of files in the change.
.PP
The file is deleted from the development directory unless the \fB\-Keep\fP
option is specified.  The \fB\-Keep\fP option should be used with great
care, as you can confuse tools such as \fImake\fP(1) by leaving these
files in place.
.PP
You may name a directory to delete from the change all files
in that directory tree previously copied into the change,
other files in the tree will be ignored.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
If the project \fIconfig\fP file was deleted,
any diff registration will also be canceled.
.PP
The difference file (\f(CW,D\fP) will also be removed,
however any DMT derived files
(e.g a \f(CW.o\fP file from a \f(CW.c\fP file)
will not be removed.
This is because \*(n) is decoupled from the DMT,
and cannot know what these derived file may be called.
You may need to delete derived files manually.
.SS Notification
The \fImake_transparent_undo_command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file
is run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_symlnk_vfy.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aemtu '\*(n) -mtu \e!* -v'
sh$	aemtu(){\*(n) -mtu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecpu (1)
no longer modify a file
.TP 8n
.IR aemt (1)
make branch files transparent
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
