'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2004, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Make_Transparent" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis make transparent \- make branch file transparent
.XX "aemt(1)" "make branch file transparent"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Make_Transparent
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR filename \&...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-List
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-Make_Transparent"
command is used to
add a file to the change which will result in the named file being made
transparent in the branch when the change is integrated.
The version of the project file from the deeper branch will then show through.
.PP
You may name a directory to make all files
in that directory tree transparent.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.SS Branch \fIvs\fP Change
The \fIaecpu\fP(1) command may only be applied to a change.  If you
wish to perform the same operation on a branch, use the \fIaemt\fP(1)
command, through the agency of a change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because changing the change file list logically invalidates them.
.\" If the project
.\" configuration
.\" file was made transparent,
.\" any diff registration will also be canceled.
.SS Notification
The \fImake_transparent_command\fP in the project configuration file is
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_baserel.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.TP 8n
.B \-UNChanged
.br
Examine the named files to see if they are unchanged.
Only remove the unchanged files from the branch,
and leave the files which have changed.
If no files are named on the command line
all branch files are checked.
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aemt '\*(n) \-mt \e!* \-v'
sh$     aemt(){\*(n) \-mt "$@" \-v}
.fi
.PP
This command is dedicated to my wife, Mary\[hy]Therese.  When I was trying
to explain what this command did, she said \[lq]I had one of those on my
bicycle when I was young, but it fell off\[rq].
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if the file is not present in the immediate branch.
.br
It is an error if the file is present in the immediate branch, but is
not also present in a deeper branch.
.br
It is an error if the file is only present in the trunk branch.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecpu (1)
uncopy copy files from a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemtu (1)
cease making branch files transparent
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
