'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1993-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -MoVe_file" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -MoVe_file \- rename one or more files as part of a change
.XX "aemv(1)" "rename one or more files as part of a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
[
.IR option ...
]
.I old-name
.I new-name
.I [ old1 new1 [ old2 new2 ] ]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -MoVe_file
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -MoVe_file
command is used to
copy a file into a change
and change its name at the same time.
.PP
The named files will be copied from the baseline (\fIold-file\fP) into
the development directory (\fInew-file\fP),
and added to the list of files in the change.
.PP
Warning:
If there is already files in the development directory of either the
.I old-name
or the
.I new-name
they will be overwritten.
.PP
The \fIold-file\fP in the development directory will contain 1KB of
random text.  The random text is sufficiently revolting that most
compilers will give error messages, should the file be referenced
accidentally.  This is often very helpful when moving include files.
.PP
You may rename directories.
All the files in the
.I old-name
directory tree will be renamed to be below the
.I new-name
directory tree.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because adding another file logically invalidates them.
.PP
When the change files are listed
(\fI\*(n) -List Change_Files -TERse\fP)
the new files (\fInew-name\fP) will appear in the listing,
and the removed files (\fIold-name\fP) will
.B not
appear in the terse listing.
Similarly,
when the project files are listed with an explicit change number
(\fI\*(n) -List Project_Files -TERse -Change\fP \f(CWN\fP)
none of the change's files,
including both the new and removed files,
will appear in the terse listing.
These two features are very helpful when calling \*(n) from within
a DMT to generate the list of source files.
.SS Notification
The \fInew_\%file_\%command\fP and \fIremove_\%file_\%command\fP
in the project \fIconfig\fP file are run, if set.  The
\fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set, and if there has
been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.so z_whiteout.so
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the notifications
usually performed by the \fIaerm\fP(1), \fIaenf\fP(1) and
\fIaent\fP(1) commands are run, as appropriate.  These include
the \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP, \fInew_\%file_\%command\fP,
\fInew_\%test_\%command\fP and \fIremove_\%file_\%command\fP fields of
the project \fIconfig\fP file.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o_whiteout.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aemv '\*(n) -mv \e!* -v'
sh$	aemv(){\*(n) -mv "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
either file is already in the change.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemvu (1)
undo the rename files as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenfu (1)
remove files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aermu (1)
remove files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
