'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-MoVe_file_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis move file undo \- undo the rename a file as part of a change
.XX "aemvu(1)" "undo the rename a file as part of a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-MoVe_file_Undo
[
.IR option ...
]
.IR filename ...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-MoVe_file_Undo
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-MoVe_file_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-MoVe_file_Undo
command is used to
reverse the effects of the
.I \*(n)
.I \-MoVe_file
command.
You only need to name one half of the rename,
the other half will be determined automatically.
You may apply this command to whole directories.
.PP
The named files will be removed from the development directory,
and removed from the list of files in the change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because adding another file logically invalidates them.
.SS Notification
The \fInew_\%file_\%undo_\%command\fP and
\fIremove_\%file_\%undo_\%command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file are
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.so lib/en/man1/z_whiteout.so
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the notifications
usually performed by the \fIaermu\fP(1), \fIaenfu\fP(1) and
\fIaentu\fP(1) commands are run, as appropriate.  These include the
\fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP, \fInew_\%file_\%undo_\%command\fP,
\fInew_\%test_\%undo_\%command\fP and \fIremove_\%file_\%undo_\%command\fP
fields of the project \fIconfig\fP file.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for
more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_symlnk_vfy.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_whiteout.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aemvu '\*(n) \-mvu \e!* \-v'
sh$     aemvu(){\*(n) \-mvu "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not being moved by the change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemv (1)
rename files as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenfu (1)
remove files to be created by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aermu (1)
remove files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
