'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1995, 1999, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_BRanch_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis new branch undo \- remove a branch
.XX "aenbru(1)" "remove a branch"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_BRanch_Undo
.I number
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_BRanch_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-New_BRanch_Undo"
command is used to
remove a branch created with the
.IR aenbr (1)
command.
.PP
.B Note:
This command will completely remove all trace of the branch from Aegis'
database.  This includes all changes performed on the branch and all
of its sub\[hy]branches.  (This history remains in the history files, but
is inaccessible.)
.PP
If you wish to finish development of a branch, and commit all of its
changes to the parent branch, use the \fIaede\fP(1) command, instead.
.PP
If you wish to stop anyone from developing more changes on the branch,
use the \fIaerd\fP(1) command to remove all the developers.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_keep.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenbr (1)
create a new branch
.TP 8n
.IR aencu (1)
new change undo
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
