'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1995, 1998, 1999, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_BRanch" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis new branch \- create a new branch
.XX "aenbr(1)" "create a new branch"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_BRanch
[
.I number
][
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_BRanch
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-New_BRanch"
command is used to
create a new branch.
A branch is very similar to a
.IR change ,
except that a branch may have changes (or branches) of its own,
and a change may not.
.PP
You may choose your own branch number, if you want.
Zero and positives are legal, but negatives are not.
It is an error if that number has already been used for
a change or another branch.
If you do not specify a change number,
the lowest available positive number (1 or more) will be used.
.PP
The new branch will be a special sort of change.
It will be in the '\fIbeing developed\fP' state,
but the usual commands in that stat (build, diff, etc) will not work.
Instead, you must create changes on the branch,
and when those changes are integrated into the branch,
this is the equivalent of build, diff, etc, on the branch.
Once the branch is completed,
the
.IR aede (1)
command may be used to advance it to the
.I "being reviewed"
state,
and from then on it becomes a normal change.
Should it be returned to the
.I "being developed"
state for any reason,
it will once again require sub\[hy]changes to alter anything.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Output\fP \fIfilename\fP
This option may be used to specify a filename which is to be written with
the automatically determined branch number.  Useful for writing scripts.
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aenbr '\*(n) \-nbr \e!* \-v'
sh$     aenbr(){\*(n) \-nbr "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenbru (1)
remove a branch
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
create a new change
.TP 8n
.IR aede (1)
develop end
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
