'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1996, 1998-2000, 2002-2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_File" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis new file \- add new files to be created by a change
.XX "aenf(1)" "add new files to be created by a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_File
.IR file\[hy]name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_File
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_File
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-New_File
command is used to
add new files to a change.
The named files will be
added to the list of files in the change.
.PP
For each file named,
a new file is created in the development directory,
if it does not exist already.
If the file already exists,
it will not be altered.
.PP
If you want a new source file to be executable (shell scripts, for
example) then you simply use the normal \fIchmod\fP(1) command.  If any
of the file's executable bits are set at \fIaede\fP(1) time the file is
remembered as executable and all execute bits (minus the project's umask)
will be set by subsequent \fIaecp\fP(1) commands.
.PP
If you name a directory on the command line, the entire directory tree
will be searched for new files.  (Note: absolutely everything will be added,
including dot files and binary files, so you will need to clean out any
junk first.)
Files below this named directory which are already in the change, or in
the project, will be ignored.
The \f[I]file_name_accept\fP and \f[I]file_name_reject\fP patterns
in the project \f[I]aegis.conf\fP file will also be applied, see
\f[I]aepconf\fP(5) for more information.
.SS Directory Example
There are times when a command such as
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]aenf fubar/*\fP
.fi
aegis: project "example": change 42: "fubar/glorp" already in change
.br
aegis: project "example": change 42: found 1 fatal error, no new files added
.nf
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
will fail as shown.  There are several ways to deal with this,
the easiest being to simply name the directory:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]aenf fubar\fP
.fi
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/smiley" added
.br
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/frownie" added
.nf
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
You could also use the \f[I]find\fP(1) command for arbitrarily complex
file selection, but you must first exclude files that the above command
excludes automatically:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]aelcf > exclude\fP
$ \f[CB]aelpf >> exclude\fP
$ \f[CB]find fubar \-type f | \e
    grep \-v \-f exclude | \e
    xargs aegis \-\-new\[hy]file \-v\fP
.fi
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/smiley" added
.br
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/frownie" added
.nf
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
If you aren't using the exclude list,
the \f[I]find\fP(1) command will need fine tuning for your development
directory style.  If you are using the symlink\[hy]style, you will need to
add the \f[I]find \-nlink 1\fP option in addition to the
\f[I]find \-type f\fP option.
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
$ \f[CB]find fubar \-type f \-nlinks 1 | \e
    xargs aegis \-\-new\[hy]file \-v\fP
.fi
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/smiley" added
.br
aegis: project "example": change 42: file "fubar/frownie" added
.nf
$
.fi
.ft R
.RE
If you are using the full\[hy]copy development directory style,
you will have to use the exclude list method, above.
.so lib/en/man1/z_template.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_filesize.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_intuit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_retype.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_promotion.so
.SS Notification
The \fInew_file_command\fP in the project configuration file is run,
if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set, and
if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for
more information.
.\" unlike the above, z_test_corr.so starts a new section
.so lib/en/man1/z_test_corr.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood
.so lib/en/man1/o_as_needed.so
.TP 8n
.B \-Build
.br
This option may be used to specify that the file is constructed
during a build (often only an integrate build),
so that history of it may be kept.
This is useful for generating patch files,
where a history of generated files is important.
Files created in this way may not be copied into a change,
though they may be deleted.
Avoid using files of this type,
if at all possible.
.so lib/en/man1/o_baserel.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-CONFIGured\fP
This option may be used to specify that the file is an Aegis project
configuration file.  The default project configuration file is called
\fIaegis.conf\fP, however any file name may be used.  You may also use
more than one file, splitting the content across several files, all of
which must be of this type.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-INDependent\fP
The option may be used to request all the necessary actions, but not to
actually add the new file to the change set.
.so lib/en/man1/o_keep.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_template.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_uuid.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aenf '\*(n) \-nf \e!* \-v'
sh$     aenf(){\*(n) \-nf "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is already part of the change.
.br
It is an error if
the file is already part of the baseline.
.br
It is an error if the files named on the command line are not normal
files and not directories.  (If you need symbolic links or special files,
create them at build time.)
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemv (1)
rename a file as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenfu (1)
remove new files from a change
.TP 8n
.IR aent (1)
add new tests to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted by a change
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
