'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1996, 1998, 2002, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_File_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_File_Undo \- remove new files from a change
.XX "aenfu(1)" "remove new files from a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_File_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_File_Undo
command is used to
remove new files from a change
(reverse the actions of the '\*(n) -New_File' command).
The file is removed from the list of files in the change.
.PP
The file is removed from the development directory
unless the
.B -Keep
option is used.
The
.B -Keep
option should be used with great care,
as you can confuse tools such as
.IR make (1)
by leaving these files in place.
.PP
You may specify a directory name to remove all
new files in the named directory tree,
other files in the tree will be ignored.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Notification
The \fInew_\%file_\%undo_\%command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file is
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
.PP
The difference file (\f(CW,D\fP) will also be removed,
however any DMT derived files
(e.g a \f(CW.o\fP file from a \f(CW.c\fP file)
will not be removed.
This is because \*(n) is decoupled from the DMT,
and cannot know what these derived file may be called.
You may need to delete derived files manually.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_symlnk_vfy.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aenfu '\*(n) -nfu \e!$ -v'
sh$	aenfu(){\*(n) -nfu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not in the change.
.br
It is an error if
the file was not added to the change with the '\*(n) -New_File' command.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add new files to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
