'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_Project_Alias" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis new project alias \- create a new project alias
.XX "aenpa(1)" "create a new project alias"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_Project_Alias
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I project\[hy]name
.I alias\[hy]name
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-New_Project_Alias"
command is used to
create a projects alias, so that branches of projects may be referred
by a shorter or more specific name.
.PP
The project name \fImust\fP be given on the command line;
the default project is not sufficient.
The project named may be a top\[hy]level project, or it may be a branch
(to any depth of branch).
.PP
The new alias name must also be given on the command line,
and it must be the \fIsecond\fP name.
Project aliases have fewer limits than project names:
they must not need shell quoting, that's all.
.so lib/en/man1/z_alias.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if the old project does not exist.
.br
It is an error if the current user is not a project administrator.
.br
It is an error if the new alias name look like a branch name.
.br
It is an error if the new alias contains unprintable characters.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIaerpa\fP(1)
Remove project alias.
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
