'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1999, 2002, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.so etc/libdir.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_PRoject" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis new project \- create a new project
.XX "aenpr(1)" "create a new project"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_PRoject
.I project\[hy]name
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_PRoject
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_PRoject
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-New_PRoject
command is used to
create a new project.
The project is created as an empty directory structure
with no staff except the administrator, no changes,
and branches to implement the version specified.
.PP
Please note: unless you specify a version (see the \fB\-version\fP option,
below) this command will default to creating branches to support version
1.0.  If you discovered this too late, all is not lost: you can use the
\fIaenbru\fP(1) command to get rid of the branches you didn't want.
.SS Directory
The project directory,
under which the project baseline and history and
state and change data are kept,
will be created at this time.
If the
.B \-DIRectory
option is not given,
the project directory will be created in the
directory specified by the default_\%project_\%directory field of
.IR aeuconf (5),
or if not set
in current user's home directory;
in either case with the same name as the project.
.SS Staff
The project is created with the current user
and group as the owning user and group.
The current user is an administrator for the project.
The project has no developers, reviewers, integrators or
other administrators.
The project's umask is derived from the current user's umask,
but guaranteeing that group members will have access
and that only the project owner will have write access.
.SS Pointer
The project pointer will be added to the first element of
the search path,
or
.I \*(S)
if no path is set.
If this is inappropriate, use the
.B \-LIBrary
option to explicitly set the desired location.
See the
.B \-LIBrary
option for more information.
.SS Version
You may specify the project version in two ways:
.TP 3n
1.
The version number may be implicit in the project name,
in which case the version numbers will be stripped off.
For example, \[lq]aenpr example.1.2\[rq]
will create a project called \[lq]example\[rq]
with branch number 1 created, and sub\[hy]branch 2 of branch 1 created.
.TP 3n
2.
The version number may be stated explicitly,
in which case it will be subdivided for branch numbers.
For example, \[lq]aenpr example \-version 1.2\[rq]
will create a project called \[lq]example\[rq]
with branch number 1 created, and sub\[hy]branch 2 of branch 1 created.
.PP
In each case,
these branches may be named wherever a project name may be given,
such as \[lq]\-p example.1\[rq] and \[lq]\-p example\[hy]1.2\[rq].
The actual punctuation character is unimportant.
.PP
You may have any depth of version numbers you like.
Both methods of specifying version numbers may be used,
and they will be combined.
If you want no version numbers at all,
use \fB\-version\fP with a single dash as the argument,
as in \[lq]\f(CW\-version \-\fP\[rq]
.PP
If no version number is given,
either explicitly or implicitly,
version 1.0 is used.
.SS Project Directory Location
.so lib/en/man1/z_filelocn.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_dir.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_edit.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_file.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.TP 8n
.B \-Keep
This option may be used to re\[hy]attach a project detached using \fIaermpr
\&\-keep\fP and possibly moved by the system administrator.
.so lib/en/man1/o_lib.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.\" These options are now obsolete
.\" .so o_major.so
.\" .so o_minor.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-VERSion\fP \fInumber\fP
This option may be used to specify the version number
for the project.
Version numbers are implemented as branches.
Use a single dash (\[lq]\f(CW\-\fP\[rq]) as the argument
if you want no version branches created.
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aenpr '\*(n) \-npr \e!* \-v'
sh$     aenpr(){\*(n) \-npr "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the project name already exists.
.br
It is an error if
the project directory already exists.
.br
It is an error if
the current user does not have sufficient permissions to create
the directory specified with the
.B \-DIRectory
option.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aena (1)
add a new administrator to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenbru (1)
Remove a new branch.  This can often be useful if \fIaenpr\fP(1) created
some default branches for you, and now you want to get rid of them.
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
add a new change to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aend (1)
add a new developer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aenrls (1)
create a new project from an existing project
.TP 8n
.IR aenrv (1)
add a new reviewer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aermpr (1)
remove project
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
