'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1998, 2000, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.so etc/libdir.so
.TH "\*(n) \-New_ReLeaSe" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis new release \- create a new project from an old\[hy]style project.
.XX "aenrls(1)" "create a new project from an old\[hy]style project"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_ReLeaSe
project\[hy]name
[
.I new\[hy]project\[hy]name
][
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_ReLeaSe
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-New_ReLeaSe
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-New_ReLeaSe
command is used to
create a new project from an existing project.
.I "It creates a new post\[hy]3.0 project from an old pre\[hy]3.0 project."
.PP
\fBPlease Note:\fP If your old\[hy]style project does not have a version
number in the project name, you \fImust\fP supply a new project name,
otherwise you will get an error.  (If you want to re\[hy]use the old project
name, you need to rename the old project, and then use \fIaenrls\fP to
create a new new\[hy]style project with the old name.  See the HOWTO for
how to change a project's name.)
.PP
This command was essential before the introduction of branches into the
Aegis model.  It is more useful to create a new release of a project by
ending development on the branch of the previous release and starting
development of a new branch numbered for the desired release.
.PP
Once you have a new\[hy]style project, use the
.IR aenbr (1)
command to create new branches on this project.
This provides more efficient release management,
and allows historical versions to be reproduced more simply.
.PP
If no
.I new\[hy]project\[hy]name
is specified,
it will be derived from the project given as follows:
any minor version dot suffix will be removed from the name,
then
any major version dot suffix will be removed from the name.
A major version dot suffix will be appended, and then
a minor version dot suffix will be appended.
As an example, "foo.1.0" would become "foo.1.1" assuming
the default minor version increment,
and "foo" would become "foo.1.1" assuming the same minor version
increment.
.PP
The entire project baseline will be copied.
The project state will be as if change 1 had already been integrated,
naming every file (in the old project) as a new file.
The history files will reflect this.
No build will be necessary;
it is assumed that the old baseline was built successfully.
Change numbers will commence at 2,
as will build numbers.
Test numbers will commence where the old project left off
(because all the earlier test numbers were used by the old project).
.PP
The default is for the minor version number to be incremented.
If the major version number is incremented or set,
the minor version number will be set to zero if it is not explicitly
given.
.PP
The pointer to the new project will be added to the first element
of the search path,
or
.I \*(S)
if none is set.
If this is inappropriate, use the
.B \-LIBrary
option to explicitly set the desired location.
See the
.B \-LIBrary
option for more information.
.PP
The project directory,
under which the project baseline and history and
state and change data are kept,
will be created at this time.
If the
.B \-DIRectory
option is not given,
the project directory will be created in the
directory specified by the default_\%project_\%directory field of
the project user's
.IR aeuconf (5),
or if not set
in project user's home directory;
in either case with the same name as the project.
.PP
All staff will be copied from the old project to the new project
without change,
as will all of the project attributes.
.so lib/en/man1/z_bl_lock.so
.SS Project Directory Location
.so lib/en/man1/z_filelocn.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_dir.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_lib.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.\" These two are obsolete...
.\" .so o_major.so
.\" .so o_minor.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-VERSion\fP \fInumber\fP
This option may be used to specify the version number
for the project.
Version number are implemented as branches.
Use the empty string as the argument
if you want no version branches created.
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aenrls '\*(n) \-nrls \e!* \-v'
sh$     aenrls(){\*(n) \-nrls "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the old project named does not exist.
.PP
It is an error if
the old project named has not yet had any changes integrated.
.PP
It is an error if
the old project named has any changes not in the
.I completed
state.
.PP
It is an error if
the current user is not an administrator of the old project.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenpr (1)
create a new project
.TP 8n
.IR aermpr (1)
remove project
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.TP 8n
.I "Aegis User Guide"
The chapter on
.I "Branching"
has useful information about releases and branching.
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
