'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1996-1998, 2002, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -New_Test_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -New_Test_Undo \- remove new tests from a change
.XX "aentu(1)" "remove new tests from a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -New_Test_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -New_Test_Undo
command is used to
remove new tests from a change
(reverse the actions of the '\*(n) -New_Test' command).
The file is removed from the development directory.
.PP
You may specify a directory name to remove all
new tests in the named directory tree,
other files in the tree will be ignored.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Notification
The \fInew_\%test_\%undo_\%command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file is
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_interact.so
.so o_keep.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_symlnk_vfy.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aentu '\*(n) -ntu \e!$ -v'
sh$	aentu(){\*(n) -ntu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not in the change.
.br
It is an error if
the file was not added to the change with the '\*(n) -New_Test' command.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aent (5)
add a new test to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
