'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aepromptcmd
.TH "aepromptcmd" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aepromptcmd \- change prompt color by change state
.XX "aepromptcmd(1)" "change prompt color by change state"
.SH SYNOPSIS
PROMPT_COMMAND="aepromptcmd"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIbash\fP(1) shell has an interesting property:  If the
PROMPT_COMMAND vaiable is set, the value is executed as a command prior
to issuing each primary prompt.  (Actually, it can be a seties of
semicolon separated commands.)
.PP
In order to change the text back to normal, the PS1 variable needs to
have "\e33[0m" somewhere near the end, otherwise things can get a little
difficult to read.  If you are using \fIbash\fP(1), you need to let it
know these are unprintable (like this: "\e[\e33[0m\e]") or it messes up
command line editing.
.PP
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to set the color of the prompt, based on
the state of the current change.
This is an idea taken from Kent Beck's \fITest Driven Development\fP book.
If the change is in the \fIbeing developed\fP or \fIbeing integrated\fP
state and it needs to be built, the prompt is red; if it is built but it
needs to be tested, the prompt is magenta, otherwise it is green.
.SH Example
Here is a short script you can put in your \f[CW].bashrc\fP file to turn
on prompt coloring:
.RS
if [ "$PS1" ]
then
    case "$PROMPT_COMMAND" in
    "" )
	PROMPT_COMMAND="aepromptcmd"
	PS1="$PS1^[[0m"
	;;
    *aepromptcmd*)
	;;
    *)
	PROMPT_COMMAND="$PROMPT_COMMAND;aepromptcmd"
	PS1="$PS1\e[\e33[0m\e]"
	;;
    esac
    export PROMPT_COMMAND
    export PS1
fi
.RE
Note that this usually leaves your prompt default (black) when you are
not somewhere inside a development directory.
.SS Limitations
The \fIaepromptcmd\fP command uses the ANSI color escape sequences.
It really should to use the \fItigetstr\fP(3) function from
\fIterminfo\fP(3) to do this in a terminal independent way.
Code contributions welcome.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_help.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Verbose\fP
By default error messages are supressed, so that the prompt will be normal
when you are outside an Aegis work area.
Use this option to tuen error messages back on.
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
