'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.so etc/libdir.so
.ds n) aereport
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis report \- report generator
.XX "aer(1)" "report generator"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR report\[hy]name
.br
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
.B \-File
.IR filename
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-RePorT
.B \-List
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
command is used to
generate reports from \*(n)' database.
Reports are specified in a C\[hy]like language
described in the
.IR aer (5)
manual entry.
.PP
For a list of the reports available on your system,
use the '\fIaer \-list\fP' command.
These reports live in the
.I \*(D)/report
directory,
and it initially contains the reports distributed with \*(n),
however sites are free to add their own here.
.SH WRITING REPORT SCRIPTS
Getting started writing report scripts can be difficult.  You are best to
have a look at the reports distributes with Aegis, and try to adapt them.
The report script files are kept in the \fI\*(D)/report\fP directory.
.PP
For information about the data structures which may be accessed from a
report script, you need to see the relevant manual entries:
.TP 8n
the projects list
See \fIaegstate\fP(1) for the member fields.
.TP 8n
a specific project
See \fIaepstate\fP(1) for the member fields.
.TP 8n
a specific change
See \fIaecstate\fP(1) for the member fields.
.TP 8n
a specific file
See \fIaefstate\fP(1) for the member fields.
.PP
Each of the above man pages also contains a section towards the end which
specifically addresses report generator use, usually with code fragments.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_baselin.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_branch.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_delta.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-File\fP \fIfilename\fP
.br
Take the report script from the specified file, rather than looking for
the named report in the library of reports distributed with \*(N).
The filename \[lq]\-\[rq] is understood to mean the standard input.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_output.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_trunk.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_unforma.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aer '\*(n) \e!* \-v'
sh$     aer(){\*(n) "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR ael (1)
list (possibly) interesting things
.TP 8n
.IR aer (5)
report script language definition
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
