'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1998 Peter Miller;
.\"	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"	Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA.
.\"
.\" MANIFEST: manual entry for 'aegis -Remove_Administrator' command
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Remove_Administrator" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Remove_Administrator \- remove administrators from a project
.XX "aera(1)" "remove administrators from a project"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Remove_Administrator
.I user-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Remove_Administrator
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Remove_Administrator
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Remove_Administrator
command is used to
remove administrators from a project.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aera '\*(n) -ra \e!* -v'
sh$	aera(){\*(n) -ra "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the current user is not an administrator of the project.
.PP
It is an error if
an attempt is made to remove the last administrator from the project.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aena (1)
add new administrators to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
