'\" tp
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Review_Begin" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -Review_Begin \- begin a change review
.XX "aerb(1)" "begin a change review"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -Review_Begin
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Review_Begin
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Review_Begin
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -Review_Begin
command is used to
notify \*(n) that you have begun to review a change.
.PP
The change will be advanced from the
.I "awaiting review"
state to the
.I "being reviewed"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S1: box "awaiting" "review"
arrow " review" ljust " begin" ljust
S2: box "being" "reviewed"
T1: spline -> from S2.w then left 0.5 then up 1 then to S1.w
" review" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T1.c-(0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Notification
If the \fIreview_begin_notify_command\fP has been set in the project
attributes, this command will be run.  This is usually used to tell
other reviewers that you have started review, and they need not.
See \fIaepattr\fP(5) and \fIaepa\fP(1) for more information.
.PP
If used when the \fIdevelop_end_action\fP project attribute is set to
\fIgoto_being_reviewed\fP, then only the notification message is sent.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_reason2.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aerb '\*(n) -rb \e!* -v'
sh$	aerb(){\*(n) -rb "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting review"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not a reviewer of the project.
.br
Its is an error if
the current user developed the change and the project is configured to
not permit developers to review their own changes (default).
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aede (1)
complete development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedeu (1)
recall a change for further development
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integrating a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenrv (1)
add a reviewer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerfail (1)
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerpu (1)
rescind a change review pass
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
