'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Review_Begin_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis review begin undo \- stop reviewing a change
.XX "aerbu(1)" "stop reviewing a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_Begin_Undo
[
.IR option \&...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) \-Review_Begin_Undo"
command is used to
stop reviewing a change.
It is moved from the \fIbeing reviewed\fP state back to the \fIawaiting
review\fP state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S1: box "awaiting" "review"
arrow " review" ljust " begin" ljust
S2: box "being" "reviewed"
move to S2.w;
T1: spline left 0.5 then up 1 then to S1.w ->
" review" ljust " begin" ljust " undo" ljust at T1.c-(0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Notification
If the \fIreview_begin_undo_notify_command\fP has been set in the project
attributes, this command will be run.  This is usually used to tell
other reviewers that you have stopped reviewing,
and they may like to do so instead.
See \fIaepattr\fP(5) and \fIaepa\fP(1) for more information.
.PP
If used when the \fIdevelop_end_action\fP project attribute is set to
\fIgoto_being_reviewed\fP, then only the notification message is sent.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aerbu '\*(n) \-rbu \e!* \-v'
sh$     aerbu(){\*(n) \-rbu "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being reviewed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not the reviewer of the change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aede (1)
complete development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedeu (1)
recall a change for further development
.TP 8n
.IR aerb (1)
begin review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenrv (1)
add a reviewer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerfail (1)
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
