'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2003, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "aerect" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aerect \- draw a rectangle
.XX "aerect" "draw a rectangle"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aerect
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I width
.I height
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I aerect
command is used to draw rectangles for use with the intranet interface.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
\fB\-Bevel\fP \fIsize\fP
This option may be used to specify the bevel size.
A size of 0 may be use to specify no bevel.
Defaults to 3 if not specified.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Color\fP \fIred green blue\fP
This option may be used to specify the color of the rectangle.
The components are specified in a range from 0 to 255.
If not specified, the color will be based on the size of the rectangle.
.so o_help.so
.so o_output.so
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
