'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aerevml
.TH "aerevml" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aerevml \- send and receive RevML change sets
.XX "aerevml(1)" "send and receive RevML change sets"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\*(n) \-Send\fP [ \fIoption\fP... ]
.br
\fB\*(n) \-Receive\fP [ \fIoption\fP... ]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI\*(n)\fP command is used to send and receive change sets using
the RevML format.  This format is independent of any particular VC/SCM
tool or vendor.  It allows export from any RevML capable VC/SCM system
and import into any other RevML capable VC/SCM system.
.PP
The basic function is to reproduce a change, so a command like
.RS
\f[CW]aerevml -send | aerevml -receive\fP
.RE
may be used to clone a change, though less efficiently than \fIaeclone\fP(1).
The file format used is designed to withstand mail servers,
so activities such as
.RS
\f[CW]aerevml -send | \fIe-mail\f[CW] | aerevml -receive\fR
.RE
(where \fIe-mail\fP represents sending, transporting and receiving your e-mail)
will reproduce the change on a remote system.
With suitable tools (such as PGP) is it possible to
.RS
\f[CW]aerevml -send | encrypt | \fIe-mail\f[CW] | decrypt | aerevml -receive\fR
.RE
The mechanism is also designed to allow web-based distribution such as
.RS
\f[CW]aerevml -send | \fIweb-server \(-> web-browser\f[CW] | aerevml -receive\fR
.RE
by the use of appropriate CGI scripts and mailcap entries.
.PP
It is possible to support both a \[lq]push\[rq] model and a \[lq]pull\[rq] model
using this command.  For suggestions and ideas for various ways to do
this, see the Aegis Users Guide.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS RevML Project
The RevML format is used for copying revision controlled files and change sets
between various SCM repositories.  The RevML project may be found at
\f[CW]http://\%public.\%perforce.\%com/\%public/\%revml/\%index.html\fP
.PP
The latest RevML DTD may be found at
\f[CW]http://\%public.\%perforce.\%com/\%public/\%revml/\%revml.dtd\fP
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SEND
The send variant takes a specified change, or baseline, and constructs
a distribution package containing all of the change attributes and source
file attributes and source file contents.  The result is compressed,
and encoded into a text format which can be sent as e-mail without being
corrupted by the mail transfer agents along the way.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the send variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-BaseLine\fP
This option may be used to specify the source of a project,
rather than a change.
Implies the \fI\-Entire_Source\fP option, unless over-ridden.
.so o_change.so
.so o_compatibil.so
.so o_compress.so
.so o_cte.so
.so o_delta.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Description_Header\fP
This option may be used to add an RFC 822 style header to the change
description being sent, with a From and Date line.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_Description_Header\fP
This option suppresses the description header.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Entire_Source\fP
This option may be used to send the entire source of the project,
as well as the change source files.
.so o_mime_heade.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Partial_Source\fP
This option may be used to send only source files of a change.
This is the default, except for the \fI\-BaseLine\fP option.
.so o_output.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_sob.so
.SH RECEIVE
The receive variant takes a change package created by the send variant
and creates an Aegis change (see \fIaenc\fP(1)) to implement the change
within.  Files are added to the change (see \fIaerm\fP(1), \fIaecp\fP(1),
\fIaenf\fP(1) and \fIaent\fP(1)) and then the file contents are unpackaged
into the development directory.
.PP
The change is then built (see \fIaeb\fP(1)), differenced (see
\fIaed\fP(1)), and tested (see \fIaet\fP(1)).  If all of this is
successful, development of the change is ended (see \fIaed\fP(1)).
The automatic process stops at this point, so that a local reviewer can
confirm that the change is desired.
.SS Notification
The \fI\*(n)\fP command invokes various other Aegis commands.
The usual notifications that these commands would issue are issued.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the receive variant:
.TP 8n
\fB\-Change\fP \fInumber\fP
This option may be used to choose the change number to be used,
otherwise one will be chosen automatically.
.TP 8n
\fB\-DELta\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to specify a particular
delta in the project's history to copy the file from,
just as for the \fIaecp\fP(1) command.
You may also use a delta name instead of a delta number.
.so o_dir.so
.so o_file_cs.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-Ignore_UUID\fP
This option may be used to ignore the UUID, if present, of the
incoming change set.
.TP 8n
\fB\-No_Ignore_UUID\fP
This option force the \fIaerevml\fP command to use the change set's UUID.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
\fB\-Project\fP \fIname\fP
This option may be used to set the project name.
If not specified, the project name in the input package will be used,
rather than the usual project name defaulting mechanism.
.so o_trojan.so
.SS Security
Receiving changes by e-mail, and automatically committing them to the
baseline without checking them, would be a recipe for disaster.
A number of safeguards are provided:
.TP 2n
\(bu
The format of the package is confirmed to be correct, and the package
verified for internal consistency, before it is unpacked and acted
upon.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The automatic portion of the process stops when development ends.  This
ensures that a local reviewer validates the change before it is committed,
preventing accidental or malicious damage.
.TP 2n
\(bu
If the change seeks to update the project \fIconfig\fP file, the
automatic process terminates before the build or difference occurs.
This is because this file could contain trojans for these operations,
so a human must examine the file before the change proceeds any further.
.TP 2n
\(bu
There is a \fIpotential_trojan_horse = [ string ];\fP
field in the project\fIconfig\fP file.
Nominate build configuration files, shell scripts, code generators, \fIetc\fP
here to specify files in addition to the project configuration file which should
cause the automatic processing to halt.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The use of e-mail authentication and encryption systems, such as PGP and
GPG, are encouraged.  However, it is expected that this processing will
occur after \&\fIaerevml --send\fP has constructed the package and before
\&\fIaerevml --receive\fP examines and acts on the package.
Verification of the sender is the surest defense against trojan horses.
.TP 2n
\(bu
Automatic sending and receiving of packages is supported, but not
implemented within the \*(n) command.  It is expected that the \*(n)
command will be used within shell scripts customized for your site and
its unique security requirements.
See the Aegis User Guide for several different ways to do this.
.TP 2n
\(bu
The more you use Aegis' test management facilities (see \&\fIaent\fP(1)
and \&\fIaet\fP(1)) the harder it is for an inadequate change to get into
the baseline.
.SS "Duplicate Storms"
In a distributed development environment, it is common for
change sets to eventually be propagated back to the originator.
There are situations (particularly in some star topologies)
where several copies of the package will return to the originator.
.PP
If these change sets are not detected at the review stage, and are
propagated out yet again, there is the possibility of an exponential
explosion of redundant change sets being distributed again and again.
.PP
To combat this, changes are checked after the files are unpacked, but
before and build or difference or test is performed.  The \[lq]\fIaecpu
--unchanged\fP\[rq] command is used to exclude all files that the local
repository already has in the desired form.  If no change files remain
after this, the change is dropped entirely (see \&\fIaedbu\fP(1) and
\&\fIaencu\fP(1)).
.SH LIST
The list variant can be used to list the contents of a package without
actually unpacking it first.
The output is reminiscent of the \fIaegis -list change-details\fP output.
.SS Options
The following options are understood by the list variant:
.so o_file_cs.so
.so o_output.so
Only useful with the \-List option.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options to this command haven't been mentioned yet:
.so o_help.so
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.so z_cr.so
