'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Review_FAIL" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis review fail \- fail a change review
.XX "aerfail(1)" "fail a change review"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_FAIL
.B \-File
.I reason\[hy]file
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_FAIL
.B \-REAson
.I "'reason\[hy]text'"
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_FAIL
.B \-Edit
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_FAIL
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_FAIL
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Review_FAIL
command is used to
inform \*(n) that a change has failed review.
.PP
The change will be returned
from the
.I "being reviewed"
state to the
.I "being developed"
state.
The change will cease to be assigned to the current user,
and will be reassigned to the originating developer.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S2: box "being" "developed"
arrow " develop" ljust " end" ljust
box "awaiting" "review"
arrow " review" ljust " begin" ljust
S3: box "being" "reviewed"

move to S3.e
T5: spline right 0.5 then up 2 then to S2.e ->
"review " rjust "fail " rjust at T5.c + (0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PP
The developer will be notified by mail.
See the review_fail_notify_command in
.IR aepattr (5)
for more information.
.PP
The
.I reason\[hy]file
will contain a description of why the change was failed.
The file is in plain text.
It is recommended that you only use newline to terminate paragraphs,
(rather than to terminate lines)
as this will result in better formatting in the various listings.
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the
\fIreview_\%fail_\%notify_\%command\fP field of the project
attributes is run, if set.  See \fIaepattr\fP(5) and \fIaepa\fP(1)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_edit.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_file.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aerfail '\*(n) \-rfail \e!* \-v'
sh$     aerfail(){\*(n) \-rfail "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.IR "being reviewed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not a reviewer for the project.
.br
It is an error if
the current user developed the change and the project is configured to
disallow developers to review their own changes (default).
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecd (1)
change directory
.TP 8n
.IR aede (1)
complete development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedeu (1)
recall a change for further development
.TP 8n
.IR aenrv (1)
add a reviewer to a project
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
