'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1996, 1998, 2002, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -ReMove_file_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -ReMove_file_Undo \- remove files to be deleted from a change
.XX "aermu(1)" "remove files to be deleted from a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file_Undo
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file_Undo
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file_Undo
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -ReMove_file_Undo
command is used to
remove files to be deleted from a change.
The files is removed from the list of files in the change.
.PP
You may specify a directory name to delete from the change all files
being removed in the named directory tree,
other files in the tree will be ignored.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Notification
The \fIremove_file_undo_command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file is
run, if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set,
and if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5)
for more information.
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because deleting a file logically invalidates them.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_symlnk_vfy.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aermu '\*(n) -rmu \e!* -v'
sh$	aermu(){\*(n) -rmu "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file is not in the change.
.br
It is an error if
the was not added to the change using the
.I \*(n)
.I -ReMove_file
command.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aerm (1)
add files to be deleted to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
