'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1991-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -ReMove_file" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
\*(n) -ReMove_file \- add files to be deleted to a change
.XX "aerm(1)" "add files to be deleted to a change"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file
.IR file-name ...
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file
.B -List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -ReMove_file
.B -Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I -ReMove_file
command is used to
add files to be deleted to a change.
The file will be added to the list of files in the change,
and will be removed from the baseline at integration time.
.PP
This command may be used to remove tests,
not just source files.
Tests are treated just like any other source file,
and are subject to the same process.
.PP
A file will be created in the development directory containing 1KB of
random text.  The random text is sufficiently revolting that most
compilers will give error messages, should the file be referenced
accidentally.  This is often very helpful when removing include files.
.PP
You may specify a directory name to remove all
files in the named directory tree.
It is an error if there are no relevant files.
.so z_intuit.so
.SS Process Side Effects
This command will cancel any build or test registrations,
because adding a file logically invalidates them.
.PP
When the change files are listed
(\fI\*(n) -List Change_Files -TERse\fP)
the removed files will not appear in the terse listing.
Similarly,
when the project files are listed with an explicit change number
(\fI\*(n) -List Project_Files -TERse -Change\fP \f(CWN\fP)
none of the change's files,
including the the removed files,
will not appear in the terse listing.
These two features are very helpful when calling \*(n) from within
a DMT to generate the list of source files.
.so z_retype.so
.SS Notification
The \fIremove_file_command\fP in the project \fIconfig\fP file is run,
if set.  The \fIproject_\%file_\%command\fP is also run, if set, and
if there has been an integration recently.  See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for
more information.
.\" unlike the above, z_whiteout.so starts a new section
.so z_whiteout.so
.so z_promotion.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baserel.so
.so o_change.so
.so o_help.so
.so o_list.so
.so o_nolog.so
.so o_project.so
.so o_terse.so
.so o_verbose.so
.so o_wait.so
.so o_whiteout.so
.so o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%	alias aerm '\*(n) -rm \e!* -v'
sh$	aerm(){\*(n) -rm "$@" -v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "being developed"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
the file does not exist in the baseline.
.br
It is an error if
the file is already part of the change.
.so z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy files into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aemv (1)
rename a file as part of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aenf (1)
add files to be created to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aermu (1)
remove files to be deleted from a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so z_cr.so
