'\"tp
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1999, 2001, 2002, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Review_Pass_Undo" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis review pass undo \- rescind a change review pass
.XX "aerpu(1)" "rescind a change review pass"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_Pass_Undo
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_Pass_Undo
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Review_Pass_Undo
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Review_Pass_Undo
command is used to
notify \*(n) that a change review pass has been rescinded.
.PP
The change will be moved from the
.I "awaiting integration"
state to the
.I "being reviewed"
state.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PS
boxwid = 1
down
S3: box "being" "reviewed"
arrow " review" ljust " pass" ljust
S4: box "awaiting" "integration"
move to S4.e
T6: spline right 0.5 then up 1 then to S3.e ->
"review " rjust "pass " rjust "undo " rjust at T6.c + (0.5,0)
.PE
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SS Notification
On successful completion of this command, the
\fIreview_\%pass_\%undo_\%notify_\%command\fP field of the project
attributes is run, if set.  See \fIaepattr\fP(5) and \fIaepa\fP(1)
for more information.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_reason2.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aerpu '\*(n) \-rp \e!* \-v'
sh$     aerpu(){\*(n) \-rp "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in the
.I "awaiting integration"
state.
.br
It is an error if
the current user is not the reviewer of the change.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
