'\" t
.\"     aegis - project change supervisor
.\"     Copyright (C) 1999, 2004, 2006-2008, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) -Remove_Project_Alias" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aegis remove project alias \- remove a project alias
.XX "aerpa(1)" "remove a project alias"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Remove_Project_Alias
[
.IR option \&...
]
.I project-alias
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n) -Remove_Project_Alias"
command is used to
remove a project alias.
.PP
The project alias \fImust\fP be given on the command line,
the default project is not sufficient.
.so lib/en/man1/z_alias.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if the current user is not a project administrator.
.br
It is an error if the given name is not a project alias.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fIaenpa\fP(1)
Create a new project alias.
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
