'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1999, 2001, 2004, 2006-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) aesub
.TH "aesub" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aesub \- substitute and echo strings
.XX "aesub(1)" "substitute and echo strings"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
[
.IR option \&...
]
string \&...
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
command is used to perform the usual \fIaesub\fP(5) substitutions on
its command line arguments, and then echo them to the standard output.
.SS Shell Script Quoting
The \fIaesub\fP(1) command is often used in shell scripts.  It is
important to remember that the shell will do its own substitutions on the
command line argument \fIbefore\fP it invokes the \fIaesub\fP(1) command.
Usually, you don't want this to happen, so you need to use \fIsingle\fP
(\f(CW'\fP) quotes to do this.  (The shell continues to substitute inside
double (\f(CW"\fP) quotes.)
.PP
Quote \fIaesub\fP(1) arguments using \f(CW'\fP \fIsingle\fP \f(CW'\fP quotes.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so o_baselin.so
.so o_change.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-File\fP \fIfilename\fP
Take the text to be substituted from the specified file.
The filename `-' is understood to mean the standard input.
.so o_help.so
.so o_project.so
.so o__rules.so
.so z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\fBaesub\fP(5)
Available string substitutions.
.so z_cr.so
