'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 1996-2000, 2002, 2004-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-Test" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis test \- run tests
.XX "aet(1)" "run tests"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-Test
[
.IR option ...
][
\fIname\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP
][
.IR file\[hy]name ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Test
.B \-INDependent
[
.IR option ...
][
\fIname\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP
][
.IR file\[hy]name ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Test
.B \-List
[
.IR option ...
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-Test
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-Test
command is used to
run tests.
If no files are named, all relevant tests are run.
By default both automatic and manual tests are run.
.PP
You may name directories on the command line, and all relevant tests in
that directory tree in the change will be run.
It is an error if there are no relevant tests.
.PP
Each architecture must be tested separately.
This is because there may be subtle problems that are only
revealed on some architectures.
Some projects may also have different code for different architectures.
.PP
The status of the last test run is remembered so that tests are not run
if there is no need.
(This does not apply to
.I \-REGression
tests, unfortunately.)
Tests must be re\[hy]run
if the test previously failed,
if the test file has changed,
if there has been a build,
and for each architecture.
.SS name=value
You can add \fIname\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP pairs to the command line,
these will be passed unchanged to the test command.
Usually on the end of the command line, but this can be changed in the
project configuration file.
.PP
The \fB\-force\fP option results in an implicit \f[CW]force=1\fP
variable being added to the list of variable assignments, and thus
added to the end of the command.  This is of most use when using the
\fIbatch_\%test_\%command\fP filed of the project configuration file.
.PP
This may initially look like a development process end\[hy]run,
allowing test scripts to be written so that they
give all the right answers without actually doing anything.
You have always been able to do this with environment variables,
so this isn't anything new.
.PP
It is possible to get all of the variable assignments to turn into
environment variables by putting \f[CW]$var\fP at the \fIstart\fP of the
command, before the name of the shell, rather than at the default
location at the end of the command.
.so lib/en/man1/z_intuit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_test_rtnl.so
.SH "TEST COMMAND CONFIGURATION"
.PP
The command used to execute tests is defined by the
.I test_command
field in the project
configuration
file (see
.IR aepconf (5)
for more information),
this defaults to using the Bourne shell if not set.
The current directory will be the top of the appropriate directory tree.
If tests require temporary files, they should create them in
.IR /tmp ,
as a test cannot expect to have write permission
in the current directory.
.PP
If you want to use a more sophisticated test engine, rather than a
simple shell script, but this test engine does not return result codes
suitable for use with \*(n), you could wrap it in a shell script which
re\[hy]writes the exit status into the values \*(n) expects.
You could also achieve the same results by writing a more complex
.I test_command
in the project
.I config
file.
.PP
It is also possible to write test commands which are able to
test more than one file at once.  This is controlled by the
\fIbatch_\%test_\%command\fP field of the project \fIconfig\fP file.
In this case, the ${output} substitution indicates the name of a file
the test command must create, in \fIaetest\fP(5) format, to contain the
results of the tests run.  This is often used on systems with multiple
CPUs or the ability to distribute jobs across several computers on
a network.
.SS "Substitutions"
All of the \fIaesub\fP(5) substitutions are available in the test commands.
Some of them are of particular note:
.TP 8n
.I ARCHitecture
This substitution is replaced by the name of the architecture to be
tested.
.TP 8n
.I Search_Path
This substitution is replaced by a colon separated list of absolute
paths to search when looking for test support files.
.TP 8n
.I Search_Path_Executable
This substitution is replaced by a colon separated list of absolute
paths to search when looking for executable support files (library files
and sub\[hy]commands).
.PP
Most of the time \fI$Search_Path_Executable\fP are exactly the same.
However, during \[lq]aegis \-t \-bl\[rq] they will be different, with
\fI$Seach_Path\fP starting at the development directory (the test
being run) and \fI$Seach_Path_Executable\fP starting at the baseline
(the executable being run).
.SS "Test Result Codes"
As each test is run
(via the
.I test_command
field in the project
.I config
file),
\*(n) determines whether the test succeeded or failed by looking at its
exit status.
This exit status is mostly as expected for UNIX commands.
.TP 4n
Success
A test should exit 0 to indicate success,
i.e. that the specific function under test worked as expected.
.TP 4n
Failure
A test should exit 1 to indicate failure,
i.e. that the specific function under test did not work as expected.
.TP 4n
No Result
A test should exit 2 to indicate no result,
\fIi.e.\fP that the specific function under test could not be exercised
because something else went wrong.
For example, running out of disk space when creating the test input
files in the
.I /tmp
directory.
.TP 4n
Skipped
A test should exit 77 to indicate that it was skipped.
This is usually to do with the current architecture not being meaningful.
Whenever possible, use \[lq]No Result\[rq] instead.
(The value was chosen for compatibility with other test systems.)
.PP
Actually, any exit code other than 0, 1 or 77 will be interpreted as \[lq]no
result\[rq].  However, always using 0, 1, 2 or 77 means that if a new result
code is required by a later release of Aegis your existing tests will
continue to work.
.so lib/en/man1/z_test_corr.so
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_auto.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_baselin.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_baserel.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.TP 8n
.B \-FOrce
This option may be used to specify that all tests should be run,
even if the status of the last test run indicates that there is no
need to run a specific test.
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_indep.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_manual.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_nolog.so
.TP 8n
.B \-PErsevere
This option may be used to specify that all tests should be run,
even if some fail.
Defaults to the user's
.I persevere_preference
if not specified, see
.IR aeuconf (5)
for more information.
.TP 8n
.B \-No_PErsevere
This option may be used to specify that the test run should
stop after the first failure.
Defaults to the user's
.I persevere_preference
if not specified, see
.IR aeuconf (5)
for more information.
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.TP 8n
.B \-PROGress
This option may be used to specify that progress messages should be
issued before each test run or before each batch test run in case
.I batch_test_command
field specified in project
.I config
file (see
.IR aeuconf (5)
for more information).
.TP 8n
.B \-No_PROGress
This option may be used to specify that progress messages should be
suppressed.  This is the default.
.so lib/en/man1/o_regress.so
.TP 8n
\fB\-SUGgest\fP [ \fInumber\fP ]
.br
The \[lq]\fI\*(n) \-Integrate_Pass\fP\[rq] command collects test
correlation statistics when changes are integrated.
This option may be used to request that \*(n) suggest
which tests should be run, using these testing correlations.
If no number is specified, 10 tests will be suggested.
This option implies the
.B \-REGression
option.
.TP 8n
\fB\-SUGgest_Limit\fP \fIminutes\fP
.br
This option may be used to limit the number of tests to a certain number
of minutes.  They will be run from most relevant to least relevant.
.TP 8n
\fB\-SUGgest_Noise\fP \fInumber\fP
.br
This option may be used to control the amount of noise injected into the
test selection performed by the \fB\-SUGgest\fP option.
The number is a percentage of noise to be injected.
Defaults to 10 if not specified.
The injection of noise ensures that a variety of tests are run
on subsequent runs, and also some from left\[hy]field as a sanity check.
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_verbose.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_wait.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aet '\*(n) \-t \e!* \-v'
sh$     aet(){\*(n) \-t "$@" \-v}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the change is not in one of the
.I "being developed"
or
.I "being integrated"
states.
.br
It is an error if
the change is not assigned to the current user.
.br
It is an error if
your have no relevant tests and no relevant exemption.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.br
.ne 1i
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aeb (1)
build a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeca (1)
modify the attributes of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
begin development of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aeib (1)
begin integration of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aent (1)
add a new test to a change
.TP 8n
.IR aecp (1)
copy an existing test into a change
.TP 8n
.IR aepconf (5)
project configuration file format
.TP 8n
.IR aeuconf (5)
user configuration file format
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
