'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 1991-1993, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.TH "\*(n) \-VERSion" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
aegis version \- give version information
.XX "aev(1)" "version information"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
[
.IR info\[hy]name
]
.br
.B \*(n)
.B \-VERSion
.B \-Help
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I \*(n)
.I \-VERSion
command is used to
give version information
and conditions of use.
.PP
There are a number of possible
.IR info\[hy]name s,
as follow (abbreviations as for command line options):
.TP 8n
Copyright
The copyright notice for the \*(n) program.
Version information will also be printed.
This is the default.
.TP 8n
Redistribution
Print the conditions of use and redistribution.
.TP 8n
Warranty
Print the limited warranty.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.SH RECOMMENDED ALIAS
The recommended alias for this command is
.nf
.ta 8n 16n
csh%    alias aev '\*(n) \-vers \e!*'
sh$     aev(){\*(n) \-vers "$@"}
.fi
.SH ERRORS
It is an error if
the
.I info\[hy]name
given is unknown.
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
