'\" t
.\" aegis - project change supervisor
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2006-2008, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so lib/en/man1/z_name.so
.ds n) aexml
.TH "aexml" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
aexml \- Aegis database to XML
.XX "aexml(1)" "Aegis database to XML"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aexml
[
.IR option \&...
]
.IR listname
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -Help
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -List
.br
.B \*(n)
.B -VERSion
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "aexml"
command is used to
extract portions of Aegis' database in XML format.
.SS List Names
The following list names may be given
.TP 8n
Change_Files
Internal change file state.
See \fIaefstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Change_State
Internal change state.
See \fIaecstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Projects
List of projects.
See \fIaegstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Project_Change_State
Internal project change state.
See \fIaecstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP
Project_Config_File
The project configuration file.
See \fIaepconf\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Project_Files
Internal project file state.
See \fIaefstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Project_Files_By_Delta
Historical project file state as it appeared immediately after the
integrate pass of the specified change or delta.
See \fIaefstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
Project_State
Internal project state.
See \fIaepstate\fP(5) for structure.
.TP 8n
User_Config_File
User configuration file.
See \f[I]aeuconf\f[P](5) for structure.
.PP
The abbreviations foe the list names follows the same rules as for
command line options.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are understood:
.TP 8n
.so lib/en/man1/o_change.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_help.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_list.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_output.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_project.so
.so lib/en/man1/o_terse.so
If the file name ends with ".gz" it will be compressed with the
\fIgzip\fP(1) algorithm, if it ends with ".bz" or ".bz2" it will be
compressed with the \fIbzip2\fP(1) algorithm.
.so lib/en/man1/o__rules.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_exit.so
.so lib/en/man1/z_cr.so
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
