'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) tkaepa
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- GUI interface for aeca, using TCL/TK
.XX "tkaeca(1)" "GUI interface for aeca, using TCL/TK"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to provide a GUI interface to \fIaepa\fP(1).  Its use
should be self-evident to anyone familiar with project administration
under Aegis.
.PP
The top line of the screen contains button for selecting the project
The project will be defaulted whenever possible, using the usual Aegis.
defaulting rules.  Click on the buttons to obtain a pick list if you
want to change; then double-click an item to select it.
.PP
There is a text entry areas for editing the \fIdescription\fP attribute.
The lower section contains a number of checks boxes for the various
attributes.
.PP
The \[lq]OK\[rq] and \[lq]Cancel\[rq] buttons do what you expect.  The cancel
button simply quits.  The OK button runs the \fIaepa\fP(1) command \-
if anything goes wrong the error message will be displayed in the message
area at the bottom of the window.
.SH OPTIONS
There are no command line options.
It is best to run this command in the background.
.so z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aepa (1)
View and edit project attributes, from the command line.
.TP 8n
.IR tkaegis (1)
GUI interface for Aegis, using TCL/TK
.so z_cr.so
