'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 1999, 2002, 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) tkaenc
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- GUI interface for aenc, using TCL/TK
.XX "tkaenc(1)" "GUI interface for aenc, using TCL/TK"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to provide a GUI interface to \fIaenc\fP(1).  Its use
should be self-evident to anyone familiar with Aegis.
.PP
The top line of the screen contains button for selecting the project.
It will be defaulted using the usual Aegis defaulting rules.
Click on the buttons to obtain a pick list if you
want to change it; then double-click an item to select it.  (I would have
used tk_optionMenu, but it doesn't have a scroll bar, even when all the
items don't fit on the screen.)
.PP
The middle section contains text entry areas, for editing the
\fIbrief_description\fP and \fIdescription\fP fields of the change
attributes.  The text wraps in a natural way, both here and in (say)
the \[lq]\fI\*(n) -list change_details\fP\[rq] listing, so only use newlines
to indicate end-of-paragraph.
.PP
The lower section contains three boxes.  The first is the testing required
for the change \- select as many or as few as is appropriate.  The second
a set of radio buttons to select the change cause \- pick one.
.PP
The third box is whether to begin development immediately (it will
also run the \fIaedb\fP(1) command), or whether to leave the change in
\fIawaiting development\fP.
.PP
The \[lq]OK\[rq] and \[lq]Cancel\[rq] buttons do what you expect.  The cancel
button simply quits.  The OK button runs the \fIaenc\fP(1) command \-
if anything goes wrong (\fIe.g.\fP asking for testing exemptions you
can't have) then the error message will be displayed in the message area
at the bottom of the window.
.PP
The number of the change will be printed on a message on the standard
output, just as for a normal \fIaenc\fP(1) command.
.SH OPTIONS
There are no command line options.
.so z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aenc (1)
Create new changes from the command line.
.TP 8n
.IR aedb (1)
Begin development of changes from the command line.
.TP 8n
.IR tkaegis (1)
GUI interface for Aegis, using TCL/TK
.so z_cr.so
