'\" t
.\"	aegis - project change supervisor
.\"	Copyright (C) 2000, 2005-2008 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"	Contributed by Scott Finneran <sfinneran@lucent.com>,
.\"
.\"	This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"	it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"	the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"	(at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"	but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"	MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"	GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"	You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"	along with this program. If not, see
.\"	<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.so z_name.so
.ds n) tkaer
.TH "\*(n)" 1 \*(N) "Reference Manual" ""
.SH NAME
\*(n) \- GUI tool for reviewing Aegis change sets, using TCL/TK
.XX "tkaer(1)" "GUI tool for reviewing Aegis change sets, using TCL/TK"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \*(n)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I "\*(n)"
command is used to provide an easy and convenient way to review Aegis
change sets. It provides a front-end to other tools which are used to
view the modifications.
.PP
Files in the change set are shown in one of four lists. The choice of
list is based on the operation performed on the file by the change
(create, modify, move or remove). Empty lists are not shown. The change
details, as provided by \fIael\fP(1) may be displayed by clicking on the
\[lq]Details\[rq] button.
.SH MODIFIED AND MOVED FILES
\fItkdiff\fP is used to show the
differenceces between the change and baseline versions of modified and
moved files. (In the case of moved files, the original name is used to
access the baseline
version.)
.PP
Double-clicking button 1 on a filename (or pressing the space key when
the filename is highlighted) will show the differences
between the change and the current branch baseline. Holding down button
3 (or pressing the \[lq]a\[rq] key)
will invoke a pop-up menu presenting the reviewer with a list of
grandparent branches which also contain the file. This is particularly
useful when rolling in branches.
.SH NEW AND REMOVED FILES
New files are viewed by opening a new \fIxterm\fP and using \fIvi\fP (in
read-only mode) to display its contents. This method is also used for
removed files, however it is the baseline version that is displayed (so
that the reviewer can see what has been removed).
.SH ADDITIONAL FEATURES FOR REVIEWERS.
If the change is in the
.I "being reviewed"
state, the reviewer may open the comments editor by clicking on the
\[lq]Comments\[rq] button. These comments will be submitted should the
reviewer decide that the review has failed. An outline of the files
included in the change is automatically created.
.PP
Once the review is
complete, clicking the \[lq]Finished\[rq] button results in a dialog box which
will allow the reviewer to pass or fail (via the \fIaerpass\fP(1) and
\fIaerfail\fP(1) commands) the change. Alternatively, the reviewer may
resume reviewing or quit, leaving the change state unmodified. If the
change was not in the
.I "being reviewed"
state, the \[lq]Finished\[rq] button simply causes
.I "\*(n)"
to exit.
.SH CONFIGURING TKAER
.I "\*(n)"
may be customised by the .tkaer file. This file is created by
.I "\*(n)"
in the users home directory when it is first run. This newly created
file contains the default configuration as described above, such as the
choice of tools used in reviewing. The configuration file itself is a
tcl script which is executed by the
.I "\*(n)"
script using the \fItcl\fP \[lq]source\[rq] command. Each entry takes the form
of a \[lq]set\[rq] statement which adds an item to the pref array.
Items currently
supported are:
.PP
.TP 8n
\fBpref(diff_command)\fP
This is the tool used to visually display the difference between a
changes modified or moved file and the baseline version.
The default setting is
.RS
set pref(diff_command) "tkdiff"
.RE
You can change it to
.RS
set pref(diff_command) "mgdiff"
.RE
If you have the \fImgdiff\fP(1) command installed.
.TP 8n
\fBpref(view_command)\fP
This is the tool used to visually display a new file or a removed files,
prior contents. The default is \fIvi\fP(1)
.TP 8n
\fBpref(view_edit_font)\fP
This is the font used by both the change details viewer and the review
comments editor. Any available X11 font may be used.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.so o_change.so
.so o_project.so
.so z_exit.so
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
.IR aerpass (1)
pass review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR aerfail (1)
fail review of a change
.TP 8n
.IR tkaegis (1)
GUI interface for Aegis, using TCL/TK
.TP 8n
.IR tkdiff
by John M. Klassa. TkDiff Home Page http://www.accurev.com/free/tkdiff
.SH AUTHOR
\fI\*(n)\fP contributed by
Scott Finneran <sfinneran@lucent.com>
