'\" t
.\"     aegis - project change supervisor
.\"     Copyright (C) 1996, 2005-2008, 2010, 2012 Peter Miller
.\"
.\"     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"     the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\"     (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"     GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"     along with this program. If not, see
.\"     <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH Localization Aegis
.SH NAME
The Localizations Directories
.SH DESCRIPTION
This directory contains
specifical localizations of the Aegis message catalogue,
manual entries and documentation.
.PP
It is organised as one directory for each localization.
.PP
Each localization name,
each directory names,
may be anything that GNU Gettext's \[lq]finddomain\[rq]
function understands.
Here is a brief overview:
.RS
$LANG now possibly contains a colon separated list of
locales.  Each single locale can consist of up to four
recognized parts for the XPG syntax:
.RS
language[_territory[.codeset]][@modifier]
.RE
or six parts for the CEN syntax:
.RS
language[_territory][+audience][+special][,sponsor][_revision]
.RE
The XPG format is much preferred,
because it nominates a codeset set name.
.RE
.SS Language Name
The language name must be one of the 2\[hy]letter names
from the ISO 639 standard.
.PP
See
.I http://www.ics.uci.edu/pub/ietf/http/related/iso639.txt
for a list of these codes.
The is also a list in the
.I doc
directory of the GNU Gettext distribution.
.PP
Please do
.I not
use the proposed 3\[hy]letter ISO 639/2 codes until it is ratified.
.SS Territory Name
The language identifier is mandatory, all other parts are
optional.  Usually \[lq]territory\[rq] means country, so please the
the ISO 3166 2\[hy]letter country code.  (e.g. en_us :\[hy])
.PP
You can find the list at
ftp://rs.internic.net/netinfo/iso3166\[hy]countrycodes
.SS Codeset Name
It is important to nominate the codeset name, so that the GNU Recode
program can be used to move translations to a different codeset.
.\" vim: set ts=8 sw=4 et :
